2018.2.0b6 Release Notes (diff since 2018.2.0b5)
------------------------------------------------

### Known Issues in 2018.2.0b6

*   Animation: Editor/Player can crash if you reparent a transform bound to a TransformSceneHandle (1035803)
    
*   Editor: TransformHierarchy is not created when accessing a AsyncLoaded GameObject before the AsyncLoad is complete. ([860938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/running-uril-dot-urilmanager-dot-create-method-in-editor-crashes-unity))
    
*   Editor: \[HiDPI\] Offset with the ColorPicker when it and the Editor are on differents monitors ([1018591](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hidpi-offset-with-the-colorpicker-when-it-and-the-editor-are-on-differents-monitors))
    
*   GI: \[PLM\] CPU is underutilized when baking multi-lightmaps ([1013830](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/plm-cpu-is-underutilized-when-baking-multi-lightmaps))
    
*   GI: \[PLM\] Editor crashes while baking after removing terrain trees and switching UI tabs with PLM set as baking backend ([1026701](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/plm-editor-crashes-while-baking-after-removing-terrain-trees-and-switching-ui-tabs-with-plm-set-as-baking-backend))
    
*   Graphics: \[HDRP\] Bugs with shadow masks ([1010127](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-bugs-with-shadow-masks))
    
*   Package Manager: Editor crashes when canceling package installation ([1011686](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packagemanager-editor-crashes-when-canceling-package-installation))
    
*   Package Manager: Package list disappears on updating the package manager UI ([1023017](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packman-package-list-disappears-on-updating-the-package-manager-ui))
    
*   Scripting: Instantiating a prefab after creating a list with type "ResourceRequest" after a while loop crashes the Editor ([908339](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/instantiating-a-prefab-after-creating-a-list-with-type-resourcerequest-after-a-while-loop-crashes-the-editor))
    
*   Video: \[Recorder\] Choosing camera options in the collection method with SRP records a black screen ([1022078](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/recorder-choosing-camera-options-in-the-collection-method-with-srp-records-a-black-screen))
    
*   XR: Screenshots render upside down on mobile XR devices ([1015862](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-mobile-capture-screenshot-renders-upside-down-on-daydream-gear-cardboard))
    

The following are changes and fixes to 2018.2.0 features and regressions...
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Fixes

*   2D: case 1015543: Particles using 2D collision mode now never collide with triggers. ([1015543](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-particle-system-is-colliding-with-2d-colliders-even-when-collider-is-set-to-trigger))
    
*   2D: Tilemap painting is disabled if the tile map is parallel to the current Scene view camera, and within a margin of 5 degrees. ([1024422](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-scene-view-camera-while-in-orthographic-view-with-tile-palletes-brush-tool-selected-drastically-decreases-performance))
    
*   2D: TilemapRenderer is now able to render when a SRP is set. (1028457)
    
*   2D: Tiles with invalid textures will be rendered with the Tile Color only, instead of displaying the last used Sprite texture ([1029439](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wip-tilemap-tiles-replaced-by-pink-squares-show-up-as-sprite-they-were-replaced-with-while-hovering-cursor-over-specific-area))
    
*   Android: Fix engine stripping stripping too much when building a project with no scripts. (1019867)
    
*   Editor: Test Runner: Give user option to save changes to current scene before test run overrides it ([1024480](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/testrunner-gameobjects-created-during-unity-tests-runner-tests-are-not-removed-in-the-untitled-scene))
    
*   GI: Fix Anti-aliasing Samples value change from Lightmap Parameters not being taken into account after a lightmap bake. ([1006916](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/plm-supersampling-doesnt-work))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed a rare crash at exiting the Editor when using D3D12 graphics device.
    
*   iOS: Don't crash when usbmuxd proxy is still running during app exit ([1011604](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-editor-crashes-when-running-ios-tests-from-the-command-line))
    
*   iOS: Fix manual signing with development certificates ([1024859](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-no-certificate-for-team-matching-iphone-development-found-using-manual-signing))
    
*   OSX: Fixed drag and dropping wouldn't always work ([1033847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/drag-and-dropping-doesnt-always-work))
    
*   OSX: Fixed missing drag and drop target indicators in hierarchy and inspector on macOS (1028018)
    
*   Scripting: Fix crash when calling DestroyImmediate(gameObject) in OnApplicationQuit. Fixes ZenInject crash that would happen sometimes after exiting play mode. (1005227)
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fixed issue loading circularly dependent assets while using scripting runtime version 4.x (1007989)
    
*   WebGL: Chrome Audio Auto-play policy workaround ([1003917](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/chrome66-no-longer-playing-integrated-audio))
    
*   WebGL: Fix usage of deprecated WebAudio setters ([965647](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/chrome64-webaudio-api-gainnode-dot-gain-dot-value-will-be-removed), [1003912](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/chrome65-deprecation-warning-audioparam-value-setter-will-become-equivalent-to-audioparam-dot-setvalueattime))
    
*   XR: Add Arm64 Googl VR support. (1034873)
    
*   XR: Fixed several issues related to BEV cameras on Windows 10 with HoloLens.
    

2018.2.0b6 Release Notes (Full)
-------------------------------

### Features

*   2D: Add option to SpriteRenderer to allow sorting of SpriteRenderer by its center or by its pivot point
    
*   2D: Added support for hexagonal layout for Grid component.
    
*   Android: Add command line option "-setDefaultPlatformTextureFormat" to set the default texture format prior to importing or building, allowing the user to avoid importing twice: Once for the system default texture format then a second time for the desired format. Only Android is currently supported. Expects a single parameter from: dxt, pvrtc, atc, etc, etc2, astc.
    
*   Android: Added support for using Java source files as plugins in Unity project. These files will be compiled and included into APK.
    
*   Android: Create a separate APK for each CPU architecture (universal APKs are still supported).
    
*   Android: Make AndroidJavaProxy work with default java methods
    
*   Animation: Animation C# Jobs: Possibility to edit the animation stream directly from a Playable using C# Jobs (see AnimationScriptPlayable)
    
*   Asset Import: Import animated property curves of constraint components
    
*   Build Pipeline: Scriptable Build Pipeline Released
    
*   Editor: Added Vulkan support in the Editor on Windows and Linux
    
*   Editor: Assembly Definition Files (asmdef) assemblies are now compiled on startup before any other scripts (Assembly-CSharp.dll and friends) and compilation does not stop on the first compile error. All asmdef assemblies that succesfully compile and have all their references compiled are loaded before compiling the remaining scripts (Assembly-CSharp.dll and friends). Ensures that Unity packages are always built and and loaded regardless of other compile errors in the project.
    
*   Editor: High-DPI scaling support on linux
    
*   Editor: High-DPI scaling support on windows
    
*   Editor: Improved LineRenderer editor. Added support for editing lines in scene, applying automated simplification and improved the display of the points list in the inspector.
    
*   Editor: Unity Engine modules can now be disabled in Package Manager UI as built-in modules
    
*   Editor: UXML schema generation
    
*   Graphics: Add/Set positions in a TrailRenderer from script.
    
*   Graphics: Added smooth deletion of TrailRenderer points.
    
*   Graphics: Added StreamingController component which provides more control over the mipmap texture streaming including preloading in advance of camera cuts
    
*   Graphics: Added texture streaming support to load mipmaps on demand.
    
*   Graphics: Asynchronous GPU readback API
    
*   Graphics: BakeMesh script API added for ParticleSystemRenderer, LineRenderer and TrailRenderer
    
*   Graphics: Scriptable shader variants stripping
    
*   Graphics: Start/stop a TrailRenderer from spawning points, with the new "Emitting" new checkbox.
    
*   IL2CPP: Add support for managed code debugging on Android.
    
*   IL2CPP: Add support for managed code debugging on iOS
    
*   Package Manager: Package Manager user interface (from where a project's packages can be managed and new packages can be discovered) v1.8.0:
    
    *   Fix packages sorting in All tab
    *   Will no longer loop error report with an invalid manifest
    *   Will no longer report errors infinitely when an exception is thrown during an operation
    *   Only show "View Changes" when there is an update button
    *   Fixes typos in dialog when updating package manager ui
    *   Added 'View Documentation' link to package details
    *   Added 'View changes' link to package details
    *   When updating the package, the user is now asked to confirm temporary closure of the window.
    *   The window is now dockable.
    *   UI style rework, making it consistent with the rest of the Editor.
    *   Added keyboard navigation in the Packages list
    *   Moved menu item to access the Package Manager UI window from "Project -> Packages -> Manage" to "Window -> Package Manager".
    *   The "Install" tab now shows the latest version (and description) available for each package, rather than the current version.
    *   The "Update to" button is no longer displayed when the current version is the same as (or greater than) the latest one available.
    *   The UI now displays "alpha", "beta", "experimental" and "recommended" tags for packages, as appropriate. Previous versions did not display such tags, so it was not possible to determine the status of packages.
    *   UI polish.
*   Package Manager: Support Packages assets in Asset Database search and Object selector
    
*   Package Manager: Support Packages in Project Browser
    
*   Package Manager: Support Read Only package folders in drag-n-drop and Renaming:
    
    *   Prevent drag-and-drop operation when target is a read-only package
    *   Prevent renaming of read-only assets
*   Particles: The Particle System Shape Module now supports emitting from Sprites
    
*   Player: SRP Fast rendering codepath ("SRP Batcher"). Experimental, currently Directx11 and PS4 support.
    
*   Plugins: Added experimental Profiler native plugin API
    
*   Scripting: Added option "Wait For Managed Debugger" in BuildPlayerWindow, it shows a dialog when you run a player, this pauses the program until you connect a managed debugger. This way you can easily debug methods like Start/Awake, etc.
    
*   Scripting: Added support for serialising MinMaxCurve and MinMaxGradient in scripts.
    
*   Scripting: TLS 1.2 support via .Net45 APIs (SslStream, HttpRequest, ...) across all platforms.
    
*   Timeline: Control-clip navigation: It is now possible to navigate to timelines associated with control clips through double-click or context-click. This features allows previewing and editing a sub-timelines in the context of its parent.
    
*   Web: Added compressed property to DownloadHandlerAudioClip, which creates audio clip that is compressed in memory.
    
*   Web: Added streamAudio property to DownloadHandlerAudioClip, which lets getting a playable audio clip before download is complete
    
*   Windows: Introduced an option to generate Visual Studio solution when building your project, instead of regular executable output.
    
*   XR: Added OpenGL based single pass instancing for Android.
    
*   XR: VR-enabled projects now present the ability to select which eyes are rendered in the Game View. Previously only the left eye was rendered but now the right eye or both eyes are selectable and persistent.
    

### Backwards Compatibility Breaking Changes

*   2D: ISpriteEditor has a new interface method GetMainVisualContainer to allow adding UIElements for GUI controls
    
*   Android: Moved all Android icons to 'mipmap' folder
    
*   Android: Removed PVRScope support
    
*   Editor: Gtk+ 3.4+ is now required to run the Unity editor on linux
    
*   Editor: When importing PSD, we no longer tweak its colors to remove white matte color impact. That means that texture colors will look exactly same as if image was "flattened" in photoshop (alpha is kept intact)
    
*   Graphics: Vulkan now always uses RenderTextureFormat.ARGBHalf as RenderTextureFormat.DefaultHDR. Before RenderTextureFormat.ARGBFloat, if supported, was used on desktop platforms.
    
*   iOS: As we dropped support for pre-iOS8, we no longer need two codepaths in orienation handling.
    
*   Multiplayer: The deprecated legacy networking APIs have been removed
    
*   Profiler: Added automatic creation of label on recorder creation ([881136](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-recorder-dot-get-does-not-return-any-values-for-canvas-dot-sendwillrendercanvases))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Deprecated AppCallbacks::AddCommandLineArg() and AppCallbacks::ParseCommandLineArgsFromFiles(). You now must pass command line arguments into AppCallbacks constructor. In addition, we also deprecated PlayerSettings.WSA.commandLineArgsFile API in the editor. (1001513)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Removed "-forceTextBoxBasedKeyboard" command line argument.
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Removed support for old Windows Phone devices (the ones with pre-DX10 GPU, i.e. everything older than Adreno 4xx).
    
*   WebGL: Allow WebAssembly heap to grow
    
*   WebGL: Configured toolchain so it does not generate WebAssembly trapping instructions.
    
*   WebGL: Enable Data Caching option in new projects
    
*   WebGL: Upgraded toolchain to emscripten 1.37.33 and binaryen 42
    
*   XR: Standalone applications which target and require Windows Mixed Reality will now always attempt to initialize the device, even if no HMD is connected or the Mixed Reality OS component is not installed (rather then falling back to flat desktop mode.) This will cause the OS to display a dialog indicating that the user needs to connect a device and install the OS component.
    

### Changes

*   Android: WebCamTexture is implemented using android.hardware.camera2 package for devices which support API level 21
    
*   Animation: Linear presets now use Auto tangents, for better initial behavior when dragging the keys
    
*   Editor: Added options for better behaviour when script compilation is triggered while the editor is playing. You can choose between them in Preferences>General>Script Changes While Playing
    
*   Graphics: Added 'physical camera mode' to the camera component with sensor size, focal length and lens shift properties.
    
*   Particles: Moved "Show Only Selected" (aka Solo Mode) option to the Scene View Overlay, from the Particle System popout Window, so it is more discoverable.
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: .NET scripting backend has been deprecated and will be removed in a future Unity release. We recommend switching to IL2CPP scripting backend.
    

### Improvements

*   2D: Added an option in Sprite Editor to display pivot position in pixels and snap pivot to pixels when you drag it.
    
*   Android: C++ source files and static libraries now supported as plugins using IL2CPP scripting backend
    
*   Android: SystemInfo.deviceName will return a proper name.
    
*   Animation: Added Animation category and color to the Profiler
    
*   Animation: Improved Animation Rebind performance.
    
*   Apple TV: Added a device info class for Apple TV ('UnityEngine.tvOS.')
    
*   Asset Import: Added a property for getting the AssetImportContext in asset post-processors.
    
*   Asset Import: Added getters for the objects set on the AssetImportContext
    
*   Asset Import: Added support for target cameras from FBX in Model Importer.
    
*   Asset Import: Enabled modifications on the scale factor property in the model importer inspector when multiple assets are selected.
    
*   Asset Import: In optimized mode, if a root bone is specified in the unoptimized SkinnedMeshRenderer and its transform has also been exposed, the root bone will be kept as is, otherwise it will be set to root ([972082](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/skinned-mesh-renderer-bounds-offsets-when-applying-optimize-go-if-bounds-were-predefined-by-user))
    
*   Asset Import: Upgraded FBX SDK to 2018.1.1, all Editor platforms now dynamically link to libfbxsdk
    
*   Editor: Add EditorSceneManager.activeSceneChangedInEditMode event for when active scene changes in Edit mode.
    
*   Editor: Added PlayerSettings.SetPreloadedAssets and PlayerSettings.GetPreloadedAssets to scripting API.
    
*   Editor: Added RemoveItemAt to the UIElement.ContextualMenu. Made the ContextualMenuIterator public
    
*   Editor: Added UWP and WebGL support in the Test Runner
    
*   Editor: Improved error message `Some objects were not cleaned up when closing the scene.`, it now includes the name of the GameObjects.
    
*   Editor: Improvement to UIElements contextual menu:
    
    *   Menu separators can now be added to sub-menus.
    *   Menu actions callbacks receive the selected menu item as a parameter instead of the event. You can retrieve event information in menuItem.eventInfo.
    *   You can provide user data to menu action. You can retrieve it in your action callbacks using menuItem.userData.
    
    Breaking API changes:
    
    *   menu action callbacks now takes a ContextualMenu.MenuAction parameter instead of an EventBase parameter.
    *   ContextualMenu.InsertSeparator takes an additional string parameter.
*   Editor: Improvements to Profiler Timeline view, allowing for vertical scrolling and resizing of thread heights
    
*   Editor: Now EditMode test can yield null and/or functions that yield null
    
*   Editor: Reassignable hotkeys will now always appear in the preferences window, there is no need for first opening the window where those hotkeys take effect.
    
*   Editor: Remove final x86 dependency on Linux
    
*   Editor: Remove unused welcome.ogv from the installers/editor (990700)
    
*   Editor: Renamed desktop platform modules in Unity Download Assistant to be less confusing (Windows Mono Scripting Backend -> Windows Build Support (Mono); Mac IL2CPP Scripting Backend -> Mac Build Support (IL2CPP); Windows Store .NET Scripting Backend -> UWP Build Support (.NET)) (995607)
    
*   Editor: Reorganized the window main menu.
    
*   Editor: Single channel EXR is now supported (876682)
    
*   Editor: Test Runner window: All tests that have no Category attribute or don't inherit one from their test fixture class are now grouped under a new Category filter called "Uncategorized"
    
*   Editor: Test Runner window: Run All and Run Selected always run tests respecting the currently selected name and category fixes
    
*   Editor: Users can override the selection outliner if they add this pass. Tags{ "LightMode" = "SceneSelectionPass" } Should return: return float4(\_ObjectId, \_PassValue, 1, 1); Example: https://www.hastebin.com/avoneziqam.cs
    
*   GI: Cache a LightingData asset when baking in auto mode, so scripts in play mode switching to an auto-baked scene can recover all GI data
    
*   GI: Reduced memory usage while baking with Progressive Lightmapper when using many instances.
    
*   Graphics: Add LOD fade support for particles/lines/trails
    
*   Graphics: Added GetNames function to ShaderKeywordSet C# API to return the list of shader keyword as strings
    
*   Graphics: Added Render.GetMaterials and Render.GetSharedMaterials that take List as argument
    
*   Graphics: Added SetInt, GetInt to MaterialProPertyBlock ([970490](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/materialpropertyblock-is-missing-setint-and-getint-methods))
    
*   Graphics: Added support for up to 8 UVs for model import, Mesh API and in shaders. The previous maximum was 4.
    
*   Graphics: Added Texture2D.GetRawTextureData overload that returns a direct NativeArray into texture's pixel data. This allows runtime pixel data modification without an extra memory copy of SetPixels32 or LoadRawTextureData. (1015723)
    
*   Graphics: Adding state into RenderingCommandBuffer. Allows executing same CommandBuffer with multiple lights
    
*   Graphics: Graphics.DrawMeshInstanced and Graphics.DrawMeshInstancedIndirect now can be rendered in ForwardAdd pass. Use "forwardadd" in instancing\_option directive to generate the instanced ForwardAdd pass.
    
*   Graphics: Improve handling of RenderTexture.DiscardContents, RenderBufferLoadAction, RenderBufferStoreAction in OpenGL backend
    
*   Graphics: Initialize the light index to be -1 so that the first time the light list happens we actually apply the keywords.
    
*   Graphics: Metal: enable 32bit index buffers on Intel GPUs on macOS 10.13.4 and later
    
*   Graphics: Removed LOD\_FADE\_PERCENTAGE keyword. Saves about ~1/3 number of batches in a typical SpeedTree terrain scene.
    
*   Graphics: Vulkan now supports separate textures and samplers, and shader compiler now generates all textures with separate samplers (like DX11 does)
    
*   iOS: Add frameworks introduced in iOS 11 to iOS Plugin importer inspector
    
*   iOS: Added 'Title' field to iOS Local & Remote notification classes
    
*   Kernel: Add console message when Unity terminates itself so that it is clear that Unity has not crashed.
    
*   Kernel: Core: Math types implement IEquatable and therefore no longer allocate when doing comparisions (808370)
    
*   Linux: SDL has been upgraded from 2.0.5 to 2.0.7, providing several input-related improvements to the Linux Player
    
*   Package Manager: "Package Manager User Interface (from where a project's packages can be managed and new packages can be discovered) v1.6.1. What's new:
    
    *   The window is now dockable.
    *   UI style rework, making it consistent with the rest of the Editor.
    *   Added keyboard navigation in the Packages list
    *   Move ""Project->Packages->Manage"" menu item to ""Window->Package Manager""
    *   Show the latest version and description in tab ""Install"" instead of the current version
    *   Display ""Recommended"" tag properly
    *   Display ""Go back to"" when latest version is less than current one
    *   Do not display ""Update to"" when current version is greater than lastest one. (case for embedded or local packages)
    *   ""alpha"", ""beta"", ""experimental"" and ""recommended"" tags support
    *   Add loading progress while opening window
    *   UI polish
    *   Package description and display name update
    *   Extra messaging on package state
    *   Documentation update"
*   Package Manager: Package Manager v1.9.8 added the ability to select a version to update
    
*   Particles: Users may now use separate alpha textures (e.g. ETC textures) when using Sprites in the Particle System
    
*   Player: Display.RelativeMouseAt now supported for macOS. (886960)
    
*   Profiler: Improved Profiler.enableBinaryLog behavior so that we are able to control file creation/lock state based on the propertie's value. Previous behavior for Profiler.logFile was preserved (eg: Profiler.logFile ="";).
    
*   Profiler: Improved the memory reporting grouping in the detailed snapshot (572225)
    
*   Scripting: Added a lock icon instead of the spinner when compilation is being prevented by LockReloadAssemblies
    
*   Scripting: Added fast integer method overloads for Assert.AreEqual and Assert.AreNotEqual. The methods are now 8 to 10 times faster for primitive integer types.
    
*   Terrain: Added Terrain.preserveTreePrototypeLayers which allows you to specify how Unity choose the layer for tree instances.
    
*   Terrain: The "Dynamic Occludee" property from the tree prototype prefabs is now propagated to tree instances.
    
*   Timeline: Add support to create clips from drag and drop operations for all types of clips that contain object or exposed references.
    
*   Timeline: Added edit mode preview and scrubbing of audio in Timeline
    
*   Timeline: Added support for exposed references on custom TrackAssets ([976409](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-exposedreference-class-cannot-have-references-to-scene-objects-when-used-in-playable-track-asset-class))
    
*   Timeline: TrackAssets now allow multiple TrackClip types through base class specification (950934)
    
*   UI: Improved the performance of the culling by RectMask2D. ([1002035](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ugui-dot-rendering-dot-updatebatches-takes-a-very-long-time-to-complete-when-canvases-are-moving))
    
*   UI: The Inspector window now caches the list of previewables for better performance when changing the selection. (1009751)
    
*   UI: UIElements: Logs an error when the Panel detects a rotated clip-space. (971695)
    
*   UI: UIElements: The slider now supports ranges in both directions. (969442)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: .config files are now recognized as plugins. In result, you can now have XboxServices.config file in your Unity project and it will automatically be included in the build (1010895)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Updated Roslyn C# compiler used for script compilation on UWP and Xbox One to version 2.7, which supports C# 7.2. (1004854)
    
*   WebGL: Add indexedDB caching support for all build files in WebGL. Add indexedDB caching support for compiled WebAssembly code.
    
*   WebGL: Make StreamingAssets path configurable via UnityLoader.instantiate() parameters
    
*   Windows: Unity's Event Tracing for Windows provider manifest, its installation script and associated Windows Performance Recorder profiles are now shipped with Unity editor at Editor\\Data\\UnityETWProvider.
    
*   Windows: UnityCrashHandler now uses deferred symbol loading, which should make capturing crash callstacks in the Editor and Player much faster.
    
*   XR: Add warning message when a user tries to load a VR device that is already loaded. Update documentation to show correct way to handle loading a device. (996223)
    
*   XR: Android builds that support ARCore can now be built using target API version 14 or higher.
    
*   XR: Improved background rendering performance in ARCore by eliminating an unnecessary OpenGL state reset
    
*   XR: Render to Cubemap in stereo eye mode now takes account of camera rotations (1009982)
    
*   XR: StereoScreenCaptureMode added as an argument when using the ScreenCapture methods. It allows the the choice of left, right, or both eyes to be captured when taking a screenshot with stereo mode enabled.
    
*   XR: VR Terrain Trees: For desktop VR platforms, use precomputed albedo and normal maps for lighting instead of view-dependent updates of imposter textures, which becomes very noticeable in VR. This also fixed billboard "flipping" along Y when view changes. ([959319](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vr-tree-billboards-flip-on-z-axis-when-reaching-the-corner-of-the-screen))
    

### API Changes

*   2D: A new experimental API, UnityEngine.Experimental.U2D.PixelPerfectRendering.pixelSnapSpacing, was added to facilitate pixel perfect rendering of 2D sprites.
    
*   2D: Added CRUD API for Sprite Atlas, all in UnityEditor.U2D.
    
*   2D: Experimental API `TextureGenerator.GenerateTexture` now takes in a NativeArrray for image buffer instead of setting a IntPtr in TextureGenerationSettings
    
*   2D: Setting UnityEngine.Experimental.U2D.PixelPerfectRendering.pixelSnapSpacing to a positive value no longer causes the movement of the sprites to be snapped.
    
*   2D: Sprite.Create has been overloaded to take in an extra argument "generateFallbackPhysicsShape" which will generate a physics shape for the sprite if set
    
*   AI: Change structure name in the Experimental API for Navmesh Queries from `PolygonID` to `PolygonId`.
    
*   AI: New experimental API for NavMesh queries, usable within C# jobs: `namespace UnityEngine.Experimental.AI`; `struct PolygonID`; `struct NavMeshLocation`; `enum PathQueryStatus`; `enum NavMeshPolyTypes`; `struct NavMeshWorld`; **`struct NavMeshQuery`** with these functions: `BeginFindPath()`, `UpdateFindPath()`, `EndFindPath()`, `GetPathResult()`, `IsValid()`, `GetAgentTypeIdForPolygon()`, `MapLocation()`, `GetPortalPoints()`, `MoveLocations()`, `MoveLocation()`, `PolygonLocalToWorldMatrix()`, `PolygonWorldToLocalMatrix()`, `GetPolygonType()`, `Dispose()`.
    
*   Animation: Refined the experimental Anim C# Jobs API, renamed and changed some fields in AnimationStream and AnimationHumanStream (e.g. IsValid() becomes isValid, GetBodyLocalPosition() becomes bodyLocalPosition, 'DoF' renamed to 'Dof', etc.)
    
*   Asset Import: Added AssetImportContext.DependsOnSourceAsset to make it possible to report source dependencies during imports, in ScriptedImporters.
    
*   Asset Import: Changed the localID output argument of AssetDatabase.TryGetGUIDAndLocalFileIdentifier from int to long. Using an int might cause overflows if used on objects with localids over INT\_MAX, which can happen on objects attached to prefabs.
    
*   Editor: Added AssemblyBuilder.defaultReferences and AssemblyBuilder.defaultDefines read-only properties
    
*   Editor: Added Editor.finishedDefaultHeaderGUI event to inject additional controls into Inspector header
    
*   Editor: KeyDown events receiving a KeyCode and KeyUp events are now used by text fields in the Editor when the user is entering text. Previously they only used KeyDown events producing printable characters. If you have controls that draw after a text field that need to be aware of these events, you should test for them before drawing the text field.
    
*   Graphics: Camera.focalLength Camera.sensorSize Camera.lensShift Camera.usePhysicalProperties
    
*   Graphics: Removed the implicit power slider behavior from \_Shininess properties on user-defined shaders. If you need old behaviour back you can add the attribute \[PowerSlider(5.0)\] in front of the property.
    
    \[PowerSlider(5.0)\] \_NameOfVar ("Name Of Variable", Range (0.01, 1)) = 0.078125 This will give the \_NameOfVar a slider that is a power slider. ([965967](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/value-of-the-shader-property-jumps-from-minimum-value-to-0-dot-1-when-it-is-defined-with-range-min-max))
    
*   Graphics: Rendering.CommandBuffer.SetRenderTarget overloads that accept RenderBufferLoadAction, RenderBufferStoreAction
    
*   Playables: Rename SetInputPort to SetOutputPort. Added the traversal mode option (Mix, or Passthrough)
    
*   Scripting: Application.isBatchMode
    
*   Timeline: Timeline.TimelineEditor.inspectedAsset Timeline.TimelineEditor.masterAsset Timeline.TimelineEditor.inspectedDirector Timeline.TimelineEditor.masterDirector
    
*   Timeline: Timeline.TimelineEditor.timelineAsset - Reason: Ambiguous - Replaced by: inspectedAsset and masterAsset Timeline.TimelineEditor.playableDirector - Reason: Ambiguous - Replaced by: inspectedDirector and masterDirector
    
*   UI: New API for disabling Undo on DrivenRectTransform to stop and resume recording undo actions on Driven RectTransforms.
    

### Fixes

*   2D: Do not expose Power of Two scaling option in TextureImporter inspector for Sprite. ([932664](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enabling-non-power-of-2-feature-in-sprite-import-settings-results-into-ui-image-not-being-rendered))
    
*   2D: Editor crashes on BlockMask::FillSpriteData when packing certain Sprite Atlas on Android platform ([1017666](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-blockmask-fillspritedata-when-packing-certain-sprite-atlas-on-android-platform))
    
*   2D: Fix exception IndexOutOfRangeException when using Sprite Editor Window's alpha trimming after switching to different texture ([1010125](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spriteeditor-indexoutofrangeexception-is-thrown-when-applying-changes-before-trimming-sprite))
    
*   2D: Fix GameObject disappaering in SceneView when zooming in after switching from 3D view to 2D view when SceneView camera is in front of the GameObject ([1005508](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-view-disappears-when-zooming-in-2d-view-after-zooming-in-3d-view))
    
*   2D: Fix Sprite border is not duplicated when duplicating SpriteRect in Sprite Editor Window ([980383](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-borders-are-not-copied-when-duplicating-spriterect))
    
*   2D: Fix Tile Palette window breaks when cell sizing is manual and cell size on any axis is negative by clamping Grid CellSize to positive values ([1005620](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-window-breaks-when-cell-sizing-is-manual-and-cell-size-on-any-axis-is-negative))
    
*   2D: Fix tiles not rendered in tile palette window (1010103)
    
*   2D: Fixed MissingReferenceException error in console when creating a new Tile Palette ([1020204](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-missingreferenceexception-is-thrown-while-saving-a-tile-palette))
    
*   2D: Fixed MissingReferenceException error in console when Unity is launched with a Tile Palette Window docked in the Editor layout ([1020228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-missingreferenceexception-on-launching-unity-with-tile-palette-window-already-docked))
    
*   2D: Reduce rounding epsilon for Grid to reduce WorldToCell errors ([981641](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gridlayout-dot-worldtocell-returns-wrong-cell-with-very-precise-numbers))
    
*   2D: Single sprite renderer using a Sprite with custom geometry won't render. (1006454)
    
*   2D: SpriteShape is changing its boundary box when SpriteShape has fill texture ([1019411](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-shape-disappearing-when-sprite-is-out-of-view))
    
*   2D: Unity now displays an error message on the Tile Palette Window if a Tile Palette with an invalid Grid is active ([1017965](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-crashes-when-tile-palette-window-is-closed))
    
*   2D: Unity now prevents the creation of a new Tile Palette if it has an invalid file name. ([939651](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-if-user-tries-to-create-tile-palette-with-blank-name))
    
*   2D: Update docs to reflect the expected value for Pivot argument in Sprite.Create ([983805](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-dot-create-is-creating-a-sprite-with-incorrect-bounds))
    
*   2D: \[Sprite packer\] Specific set of sprites are packed non-optimaly ([1002004](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-packer-specific-set-of-sprites-are-packed-non-optimaly))
    
*   2D: \[Sprite Shape\] Crash on changing bevel cutoff property in Edit Spline toggle View on Crashes HQ ([1009772](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-shape-crash-on-changing-bevel-cutoff-property-in-edit-spline-toggle))
    
*   AI: Fixed crash that could happen when `NavMeshBuilder` asynchronous operations are used in quick succession. ([955571](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-classifytilestoremoveandcompute-when-exiting-playmode-after-getting-resume-can-only-be-called-on-active-dot-dot-dot-errors))
    
*   Android: Call stacks are now correctly symbolicated on ARM64.
    
*   Android: Error messages are no longer produced when Build Settings windows is open and Android SDK directory is not set. ([986267](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-device-selection-functionality-is-broken-when-android-sdk-path-is-not-specified))
    
*   Android: Fix CPU topology detection on certain devices leading to improved performance
    
*   Android: Fix gyroscope update rate not being reported in seconds ([986961](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-input-dot-gyro-dot-updateinterval-returns-incorrectly-formatted-values-on-android))
    
*   Android: Fix obscure android SIGSEV INVALID HEAP ADDRESS crashes by not using memalign on android ([861604](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-loading-assets-in-assetbundle-with-loadassetasync-on-some-android-devices), [961655](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crashes-on-assetbundle-dot-loadfromfileasync-and-assetbundle-dot-loadassetasync-with-release-configuration))
    
*   Android: Fix particle and image format conversion performance regression (912671)
    
*   Android: Fix split screen orientation issues on android ([962766](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-screen-changes-orientation-when-stationary-after-exiting-split-screen-mode))
    
*   Android: Fixed crash on Asus K011 when calling Application.Quit ([974103](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-dot-quit-on-asus-k011-exits-the-application-and-then-throws-app-has-stopped-working-error))
    
*   Android: Improved order of fallback fonts to give correct Han / Kanji / Hanja characters for CJK locales where possible. ([978712](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-cjk-fonts-are-displayed-incorrectly))
    
*   Android: OnEndEdit UI event is now fired before the keyboard is set to null, allowing users to access the keyboard in that event ([968840](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mobile-reference-to-touchscreenkeyboard-in-inputfield-dot-onendedit-event-is-lost-instantly-after-closing-the-keyboard))
    
*   Android: Terrain tree shader fix to avoid crash on Adreno 3xx devices ([983938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-player-containing-default-terrain-crashes-on-certain-devices-using-adreno-3xx-series-gpu))
    
*   Android: User is always asked to confirm Android SDK and NDK directories when they are automatically detected. ([986263](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-sdk-slash-ndk-detected-without-user-confirmation))
    
*   Android: Workaround for creating postprocessing render target with OpenGL ES 2.0 on Adreno 4xx/5xx ([984292](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-black-screen-on-adreno-gpu-using-postprocessing-stack-and-gles2-graphics-api))
    
*   Animation: Added some paddign to AnimatorControllerTool methods that were sometimes throwing exceptions ([1014257](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/null-ref-exception-on-unityeditor-dot-graphs-dot-parametercontrollerview-dot-addparametermenu))
    
*   Animation: Fix Vector2.Angle and Vector2.SignedAngle to early out on limits and added tests. ([979578](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vector2-dot-angle-does-not-always-return-0-between-two-identical-vectors))
    
*   Animation: Fix Vector3.Angle to better handle limits and updated Vector3.SignedAngle in consequence. Added more coverage for both methods. ([985741](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vector3-dot-signedangle-ignores-axis-parameter))
    
*   Animation: Fixed 2D grid in the Avatar anim preview (1001901)
    
*   Animation: Fixed a crash when attempting to create a clip while an invalid asset was selected ([1012598](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetsmenu-addanimationclip-crashes-when-creating-a-anim-file))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an assert when undoing Animation Curve changes in Play mode ([958505](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationcurve-no-script-asset-for-curveeditorselection-warning-when-undoing-curve-changes-in-play-mode))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an irrelevant warning message when using Animator.Play on a disabled object's Animator ([945346](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/irrelevant-warning-message-when-using-animator-dot-play-on-a-disabled-objects-animator))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where an Animation Window key would jump between two values when scaling multiple keys ([960942](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-key-jumps-between-two-values-when-scaling-multiple-keys))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where an Animator Controller additional curve parameters would get incremented when switching controllers ([958173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-controllers-additional-layer-curve-driven-parameters-get-incremented-on-switching-controllers))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where Animating AnimatorController Properties of child Animators would be offered, even though it's not supported ([963053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-a-parent-gameobject-is-trying-to-change-childs-animator-dot-parameter-parents-animator-dot-parameter-is-changed-instead))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where Animator.GetBehaviours returns an empty array after a scene has been saved ([966082](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-dot-getbehaviours-returns-empty-array-after-a-scene-has-been-saved))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where modifying a Playable Graph playing AnimationClips in Editor would not play newly added clips ([964886](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-second-clip-is-not-played-in-editor-mode-when-using-animationclipplayables))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where Objects can be affected by Root Motion even though it's supposed to be handled by curves ([936020](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/objects-are-affected-by-the-root-motion-even-if-it-is-disabled-and-handled-by-a-script))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where root motion would be incorrect in Animator Controller Transition Preview ([998773](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-root-motion-in-transition-preview))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where the Animation Window Preview would changed the default Humanoid pose in Scene ([972321](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-animation-window-preview-changes-default-humanoid-pose-in-scene))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where the Blend tree user interface would disappear while undoing newly added empty motion clips ([968836](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-blend-tree-user-interface-disappear-while-undoing-the-newly-added-motion-field-without-assigning-any-clip))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where very small values would get their values truncated by the text field in the Animation Window ([1014925](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-keyframes-full-value-is-hidden-when-animation-is-read-only))
    
*   Animation: Fixed bug were transitions are not copy/pasted in Animator window. ([978212](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transitions-do-not-get-copied-when-copying-animation-state-and-transition))
    
*   Animation: Fixed crash when calling AvatarBuilder.BuildHumanAvatar() with a hierarchy containing duplicate names ([979098](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/avatarbuilder-freeze-slash-crash-on-anonymous-namespace-markboneup-while-calling-avatarbuilder-dot-buildhumanavatar-method))
    
*   Animation: Fixed errors that happened in the Animator State Machine UI when compiling scripts ([971297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/keynotfoundexception-when-editing-code-while-having-animator-transitions-selected-in-the-editor))
    
*   Animation: Fixed previewing of animation clips with root motion in Timeline. (979748)
    
*   Animation: Fixed recording of Vector4 properties in MaterialRenderer being saved as Color in the AnimationClip instead. ([994981](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/4-additional-properties-are-created-in-the-animation-when-vector4-values-are-changed-in-the-inspector))
    
*   Animation: GameObjectRecorder can now record MonoBehaviours ([967405](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-recorder-error-in-console-when-recording-custom-or-third-party-component))
    
*   Animation: Make sure not to take transition with trigger condition containing faulty IfNot mode. Added test for coverage. ([1008518](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-parameter-trigger-keeps-getting-set-after-parameter-bool-with-the-same-name-is-deleted))
    
*   Animation: Make sure to validate editor curve binding path against Avatar root if animator is present and human. Added tests. ([997152](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-is-affected-by-animation-curve-when-in-animation-window-it-is-shown-as-missing))
    
*   Asset Import: Changed the default invalid value of TextureImporter.mipMapBias to -100. This allows users to use -1 as an override value in the texture importer. ([1013676](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textureimporter-does-not-import-png-textures-with-a-negative-mipmap-bias-correctly))
    
*   Asset Import: Fix Albedo and Opacity being ignored for Max 2018 interactive FBX material import (989848)
    
*   Asset Import: Fix Scripted Importer version number change did not auto-trigger re-import of assets ([991885](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scripted-importer-version-not-working-for-shadergraph-reimport))
    
*   Asset Import: Fix typo in texture import asset generation for sprite images in Unity 2D projects
    
*   Asset Import: Fix unloading of un used assets wrongly unloaded assets referenced by asset importer settings, leading to crashing. ([1013514](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-crashes-at-mono-class-init-when-exiting-play-mode-with-custom-asset-selected))
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed an issue when the update avatar button would not disappear in the ModelImporter Rig panel (964591)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed import of uv\_scale and uv\_offset properties of FBX stingray materials. (975560)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed issue where having an importer call certain unity methods would invoke asset GC and would crash editor. ([1006311](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetdatabasev1-importasset-crashes-when-importing-an-asset))
    
*   Asset Import: Fixes random errors when clicking on other windows while Avatar Inspector is applying ([994383](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-null-exception-reference-occurs-on-applying-humanoid-configuration-when-cursor-is-hovering-over-import-pop-up))
    
*   Asset Import: Import animated diffuse color and transparency from FBX files (1003103)
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Invoke the cache server after a domain reload ([1008501](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-is-failing-to-check-the-cacheserver-when-increasing-assetpostprocessor-version-and-adding-new-assets))
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Make sure that generated PVRTC atlases are square and power-of-2 when compiling for iOS/tvOS ([1001175](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-in-uploadtexture-at-texturesmeta-dot-mm-or-drawbufferranges-at-gfxdevicegles-dot-cpp-using-atlas-with-pvrtc-compress))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a crash when creating very large microphone clips ([884533](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-lengthsec-value-in-microphone-dot-start-is-near-to-1-000-000))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a missing visual refresh when changing send destinations using the inspector in the audio mixer (707531)
    
*   Audio: Fixed a potential crash using UnitySetAudioSessionActive on iOS together with other 3rd party audio solutions ([967197](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-at-unloadclip-inlined-begin-at-linkedlist-dot-h-when-unitysetaudiosessionactive-1-is-called))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a potential crash when destroying GameObjects that have components with OnAudioFilterRead on them
    
*   Audio: Fixed a potential invalid sample count calculation on legacy movie playback
    
*   Audio: Fixed a regression with mixer assets edited through the mixer window being out of sync with the rest of Unity ([964351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-group-doesnt-appear-in-output-selection-dialog-until-new-group-is-created))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a small memory leak related to using OnAudioFilterRead
    
*   Audio: Fixed a visual refresh issue with the output audio mixer group in the AudioSource inspector, when being changed through a script ([965028](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-source-output-field-is-not-updated-when-changing-output-via-scripting))
    
*   Audio: Fixed an issue with AudioSource.isPlaying being false on the start of the first frame, even though AudioSource.playOnAwake is set to true ([942202](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audiosource-playonawake-doesnt-play-on-the-first-frame))
    
*   Audio: Fixed inconsistencies and crashes when duplicating mixer assets in the project browser, this is now not allowed ([962084](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-mixer-groups-and-snapshots-appears-as-assets-when-groups-and-snapshots-are-duplicated-from-project-window))
    
*   Audio: Fixed issues with changes to rolloff mode and custom rolloff curves on AudioSources not taking effect before moving the AudioSource ([963164](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/volume-rolloff-mode-is-only-changed-after-the-audio-listener-is-moved))
    
*   Audio: Fixed Microphone.Start selecting the first device regardless of desired device in some cases ([962106](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/microphone-dot-start-is-not-recording-the-audio-from-selected-recording-device))
    
*   Audio: Fixed non-readable errors in some cases with streaming audio clips from WWW ([764650](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/www-dot-getaudioclip-outputs-an-empty-error-message-in-console))
    
*   Audio: Fixed off-by-one errors on AudioClip.samples ([784879](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-audioclip-dot-samples-returns-a-wrong-number-of-samples))
    
*   Audio: Fixed streaming an audio clip from WWW directly, without waiting for the download being ready - would throw errors in some cases previously ([574945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getaudioclip-no-longer-gets-streamed-audio))
    
*   Audio: Fixed various crashes when undoing changes in the mixer, especially related to undoing construction of nested and/or duplicated mixer groups ([964012](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-buildaudiomixerconstant-when-undoing-duplication-of-mixer-group))
    
*   Audio: Fixed visual refresh issues with the curve editor on a AudioSource not reflecting script changes ([964942](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-source-graph-is-not-affected-by-volume-rolloff-changes-via-scripting))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Build will now abort immediately if selected scripting backend is not installed in Unity editor and BuildPlayer API is invoked via script ([1012228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/buildpipeline-dot-buildplayer-aborts-too-late-if-playbackengine-is-missing))
    
*   DX12: Added profile marker for InsertCustomMarkerCallback
    
*   DX12: Fixed rare crash when using sparse texture mapping. (967956)
    
*   Editor: A GameView on a Retina monitor with "Low Resolution Aspect Ratio" disabled caused UGUI scaling issues. ([997931](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/canvas-is-quarter-size-on-retina-display-when-target-platform-is-set-to-ios))
    
*   Editor: Better BC formats support in KTX/DDS ([983741](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-bc7-compressed-texture-results-in-unsupported-dds-file-error))
    
*   Editor: Clean up project lock when exiting because of Unity version mismatch. (953253)
    
*   Editor: Disable "Apply changes to prefab" menu item when inspector button is disabled. ([925381](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/drag-and-drop-applies-changes-to-a-prefab-with-timeline-when-in-preview-mode-which-cannot-be-reverted), [966158](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apply-changes-to-prefab-in-top-menu-is-still-enabled-when-timeline-is-in-preview-mode))
    
*   Editor: Emit warning if trying to build player while editor is compiling scripts ([1016186](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/building-right-after-fixing-errors-in-script-causes-compiler-errors-to-linger-until-next-script-reload))
    
*   Editor: Fix color encoding of scene view being broken when using linear color space. ([973729](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-color-encoding-of-scene-view-is-broken-in-linear-color-space))
    
*   Editor: Fix crash on quitting the Editor when Verify Saving Assets is turned on ([1027527](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-quitting-project-with-unsaved-changes-if-verify-saving-asset-is-checked-on-mac-osx-only))
    
*   Editor: Fix for corrupting files by replacing prefabs with instance that contains invalid scripts. ([878569](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-applying-change-to-a-prefab-imported-from-a-unitypackage))
    
*   Editor: Fix for game object position that was updated on additional axis when moving two child game objects ([977770](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/child-transforms-move-incorrectly-with-gizmo))
    
*   Editor: Fix hover on element after displaying a contextual menu (985924)
    
*   Editor: Fix IMGUI controls drawn from SceneView delegate using the incorrect GUISkin.
    
*   Editor: Fix native audio plugin effect discovery on linux
    
*   Editor: Fix NullReferenceException thrown with EditorGUILayout ([971238](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-window-null-reference-exception-is-shown-when-interacting-with-unity-engine-editor-api-while-using-gaia-manager))
    
*   Editor: Fix NullReferenceException thrown with EditorGUILayout ([977937](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-thrown-on-script-editorguilayout-dot-beginhorizontal))
    
*   Editor: Fix NullReferenceException when reverting a model (900693)
    
*   Editor: Fix rare startup deadlock on linux
    
*   Editor: Fix scene visualization modes not working. (969889)
    
*   Editor: Fix some out-of-memory conditions when serializing assets larger than 1GB. ([1018396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-out-of-memory-when-creating-or-clicking-on-a-large-texture2darray-asset))
    
*   Editor: Fix the issue when any open menu on macOS pauses editor render timer
    
*   Editor: Fix uniform scale that was non-uniform when using the scaling tool ([842309](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uniform-scale-is-nonuniform-when-using-the-scaling-tool))
    
*   Editor: Fixed "Can not send network message. Receiver can not keep up with the amount of data sent" when capturing memory snapshot using bitbucket profiler.
    
*   Editor: Fixed : Moving EditorControls from Retina screen to non-Retina corrupts some of them (960614)
    
*   Editor: Fixed a bug that could cause tooltips applied to a label in a PropertyDrawer to be applied to other controls in the editor
    
*   Editor: Fixed a bug where setting a LayerMask field to Everything and then deselecting some layers would leave bits set for layers that had not yet been defined ([991595](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/layermask-variables-add-newly-added-layers-to-the-selected-layers))
    
*   Editor: Fixed a regression which caused some keyboard shortcuts to execute while typing in text fields. ([1022730](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/manipulation-hot-keys-are-triggered-when-changing-values-in-the-editor))
    
*   Editor: Fixed a Windows specific crash in YAMLMerge when trying to merge files (985604)
    
*   Editor: Fixed changes being done in RenderTexture inspector not being applied immediately (996459)
    
*   Editor: Fixed detailed memory snapshot to only include objects once
    
*   Editor: Fixed early flipping of login page in Mac by increasing the timeout ([980070](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/login-using-google-slash-facebook-screen-doesnt-appear))
    
*   Editor: Fixed error message to be more informative when adding a newly created script as a component before the compilation was done. ([994983](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-warning-about-scripts-being-compiled-is-shown-after-trying-to-add-a-newly-created-script-to-a-gameobject))
    
*   Editor: Fixed FrameDebugger showing garbage for OffsetFactor (971012)
    
*   Editor: Fixed Home/End keys not working on object selector. ([986886](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/home-and-end-buttons-are-ignored-when-in-object-picker-menu))
    
*   Editor: Fixed icons in the asset browser being rendered too brightly.
    
*   Editor: Fixed IMGUIContainer corrupted layout when using Begin/End pair (1013325)
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue where PreviewWindows were leaking on assembly reload ([967947](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-postprocessing-tagging-creates-additional-tag-at-run-time-after-re-importing-model))
    
*   Editor: Fixed memory leak when empty scene is played multiple times (973545)
    
*   Editor: Fixed Metal Editor always having vsync on in OSX 10.13. (959600)
    
*   Editor: Fixed Normal Map mipmap generation with fade out ([994128](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mipmaps-on-normal-map-textures-are-more-bluish-when-fadeout-is-enabled))
    
*   Editor: Fixed NullReferenceException when a Shader Variant Collection references a missing file ([977651](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clicking-on-a-shader-variant-collection-outputs-a-nullreferenceexception))
    
*   Editor: Fixed Renderer components of a prefab appearing in the Scene View instead of the Preview Window. ([959536](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linerenderer-of-a-prefab-renders-in-scene-view-instead-of-the-preview-window))
    
*   Editor: Fixed rendering artefacts when scene or preview windows are not rendering. (992172)
    
*   Editor: Fixed tab cycling issue with UIElements fields (1010004)
    
*   Editor: Fixed various performance issues in YAMLMerge ([971434](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freeze-on-checking-workspace-has-not-changed-message))
    
*   Editor: Fixed wrong label in Custom render texture "update zone" UI
    
*   Editor: Fixed: Usage of profiling::Marker in Performance::Tracker causes crash at shutdown (1010980)
    
*   Editor: GUI elements drawn during OnSceneViewGUI will maintain their correct colors regardless of the project's color space. Fix applies to all editor platforms, including MacOS. ([905054](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-gui-colors-change-dramatically-in-linear-color-space))
    
*   Editor: GUI.Box tooltip does not appear in the Inspector ([987275](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gui-dot-box-tooltip-does-not-appear-in-the-inspector))
    
*   Editor: Hover state is cleared properly after a mouse down or a mouse up (988430)
    
*   Editor: Improved performance for SerializedProperty.GetArrayElement ([1009032](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorguilayout-dot-propertyfield-causes-the-editor-to-freeze-when-used-with-element-in-an-array-with-large-index))
    
*   Editor: Improved performance of building Hierarchy View in Profiler Window ([1003069](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/excessively-high-cpu-usage-when-profiling-editor-after-pausing-the-game))
    
*   Editor: Items in the AddComponent dropdown are now sorted by name
    
*   Editor: Make script editor launching more consistent across platforms
    
*   Editor: Make sure that invalid chars in an asset name is properly handled while duplicating it ([956043](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getting-an-illegal-characters-in-path-when-attempting-to-duplicate-a-models-animation))
    
*   Editor: Opening project in Editor, causes Unity to terminate it without opening the new one ([978204](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/win-opening-project-in-editor-causes-unity-to-terminate-it-without-opening-the-new-one))
    
*   Editor: Raycasting into a GameView on a Retina monitor with "Low Resolution Aspect Ratio" disabled yielded invalid results. ([978659](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-navmesh-agents-are-broken))
    
*   Editor: Remove invisible label from rotation field. (953241)
    
*   Editor: Replaced PostLayoutEvent by GeometryChangedEvent, only sent when the element size or position changes
    
*   Editor: Send mouse enter/leave family of event after layout (962868)
    
*   Editor: Test Runner window: Filters for tree view update now support parametrized tests and groups
    
*   Editor: Test Runner window: Make Test Script creation behave consistent with how regular C# script creation works in Unity ([1004725](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/creating-new-editor-test-script-overrides-existing-one-with-default-name))
    
*   Editor: Test Runner window: Run Selected now works if test tree view root item or assembly group is selected
    
*   Editor: Test Runner window: Test execution state gets correctly propagated through the test tree
    
*   Editor: Test Runner: Disable the Create Test Assembly Folder button if a folder with a test assembly is already selected in the Project Browser ([995477](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/testrunner-create-test-multiple-times-creates-deep-hierarchy-of-folders-and-asmdef-named-tests))
    
*   Editor: Test Runner: Finish test run on exception to avoid infinite reruns and spamming the console with errors (1010349)
    
*   Editor: Test Runner: Give user the chance to save changes to currently open scene before running tests ([1005092](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/test-runner-canceling-save-of-scene-changes-when-trying-to-run-a-test-disables-running-by-double-clicking))
    
*   Editor: UIElements - The element taking the mouse capture now receives mouse events exclusively. (977649)
    
*   Editor: Using Application.internetReachability with OnGUI causes errors in the Console ([967806](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/using-application-dot-internetreachability-with-ongui-causes-errors-in-the-console))
    
*   Editor: UXML: replaced the Using element by the Template element. Template instantiation now done using an Instance element.
    
*   Editor: \[Graphview\] It's possible to trigger the Hover state of a "previewed attached edge" (1004502)
    
*   Facebook: Fix upload token validation ([991874](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/facebook-wrong-upload-token-throws-exception-and-wrong-error-message))
    
*   GI: Add support for non-uniform scaling to the Progressive Lightmapper. (953775)
    
*   GI: Fix cases where a lightmap bake would appear to run but not do anything. ([973666](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pvr-scene-is-completely-black-after-clicking-generate-light-button))
    
*   GI: Fix default specular reflection texture containing object from the scene when Umbra is enabled. ([975325](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/umbra-default-reflection-probe-uses-incorrect-hash-data-when-baking-manually))
    
*   GI: Fix performance of Light Probe Proxy Volumes in Scene View. ([949723](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lppv-low-performance-in-scene-view-on-complex-scene))
    
*   GI: Fix Reflection Probes always including Terrain objects even if they are not Reflection Probe Static. (863968)
    
*   GI: Fix scene being dirty after on demand GI bake on unmodified scene. ([974110](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-state-gets-dirty-after-baking))
    
*   GI: Fix the intensity of baked and real-time emissive materials in Enlighten (986160)
    
*   GI: Fix wrong parameters being displayed for directional, spot and point lights. ([972240](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-new-parameters-are-incorrectly-introduced-for-directional-spot-and-point-lights))
    
*   GI: Fixed a small memory leak in the realtime GI manager. ([991939](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enlighten-memory-leak-after-exiting-play-mode-when-realtime-gi-is-enabled), [1007945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enlighten-memory-leak-unitygputexture-and-unitygputextureupdater-objects-are-being-leaked))
    
*   GI: Fixed crash when changing TransparencyLM property in shader while baking ([980195](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-changing-transparencylm-property-in-shader-while-baking))
    
*   GI: Fixed inconsistency between the functionality of Lighting group and Materials group in MeshRenderer component ([969494](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/in-order-to-be-expanded-meshrenderer-lighting-group-needs-to-be-clicked-on-the-triangle))
    
*   GI: Fixed issue where baked lighting has artifacts if prefab's preview window is visible during bake process ([960649](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/baked-lighting-has-artifacts-if-prefabs-preview-window-is-visible-during-bake-process))
    
*   GI: Fixed issue where GI Meta Pass does not see to upload per object information ([964378](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gi-meta-pass-does-not-see-to-upload-per-object-information))
    
*   GI: Fixed issue where Lighting settings are not saved after reloading the scene ([989697](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-lighting-settings-are-not-saved-after-reloading-the-scene))
    
*   GI: Fixed issue where the Scale in Lightmap is the same even when Atlas Size is changed ([887650](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-scale-in-lightmap-is-the-same-even-when-atlas-size-is-changed-from-1024-to-4096))
    
*   GI: Fixed memory leak. Mesh is leaking after exiting play mode when realtime GI is enabled ([991939](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enlighten-memory-leak-after-exiting-play-mode-when-realtime-gi-is-enabled), [1007945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enlighten-memory-leak-unitygputexture-and-unitygputextureupdater-objects-are-being-leaked))
    
*   GI: Project causes "Failed executing external process for 'Bake Runtime' job." messages when run as service ([991285](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-causes-failed-executing-external-process-for-bake-runtime-job-dot-messages-when-run-as-service))
    
*   Graphics: Add error logging when preview scene can not be allocated. ([952192](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-editor-onpreviewgui-does-not-display-a-prefab))
    
*   Graphics: Added undo support for occlusion culling bake settings ([711515](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/occlusionculling-undo-slash-redo-does-not-work-in-occlusion-culling-window))
    
*   Graphics: Clarified documentation for GL.MultMatrix ([997143](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gl-dot-multmatrix-replaces-modelview-instead-of-multiplying-it))
    
*   Graphics: Disabled msaa for sceneview. This fixes issues with sceneview selection and assure SRP compatibility with sceneview. ([856883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selection-outline-outline-in-objects-that-overlap-selected-objects-desapear-on-zooming))
    
*   Graphics: Document that Texture2D.alphaIsTransparency is Editor only. ([695955](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture2d-dot-alphaistransparency-causes-build-to-fail))
    
*   Graphics: Ensure line widths are updated when updating the start/end width from script ([1017529](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linerenderer-sometimes-does-not-change-its-startwidth-or-endwitdh-when-changing-the-values-from-script))
    
*   Graphics: Fix banding when using point lights with Vulkan on Adreno devices
    
*   Graphics: Fix blending of gizmos in the scene view.
    
*   Graphics: Fix compute shaders after starting Editor with graphics emulation mode that does not support compute
    
*   Graphics: Fix error spew when invalid format ([923831](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-getrendermanager-when-going-underwater-and-looking-up-to-the-surface-of-the-water))
    
*   Graphics: Fix for Metal shader crash if source is empty ([986332](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-crash-or-freeze-instead-of-error-message-using-old-asset-bundle))
    
*   Graphics: Fix issue where the TrailRenderer could drop points a frame too late ([1005222](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trail-starts-rendering-a-frame-late-after-the-object-was-not-moving-and-the-previous-trail-has-ended))
    
*   Graphics: Fix normal mapping on lines, trails and particle trails (1009868)
    
*   Graphics: Fix Standard shader specular highlights on mobile devices ([953606](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-artifacts-are-rendered-on-a-specular-surface))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed "Invalid Image Assertion failed" error when switching from DX11 to OpenGL ES 2.0 graphics AP ([984709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-invalid-image-assertion-failed-occurs-when-graphics-api-is-switched-to-opengles2-on-windows))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed 'Forward Add' shadow rendering mode producing irrelevant syntax errors ([992989](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/using-forward-add-shadow-rendering-mode-produces-irrelevant-syntax-error))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed an issue where sprites, lines, particles and some text elements could flicker when using native graphics jobs.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed CopyTexture corner case after gfx device re-init
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash in GetRenderManager when using water4advanced asset. ([923831](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-getrendermanager-when-going-underwater-and-looking-up-to-the-surface-of-the-water))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash on invalid CameraEvent value ([1010033](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-rendereventscontext-addcommandbuffer-after-calling-camera-dot-addcommandbuffer-with-cameraevent-evt-parameter-24))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash when trying to clone shader at runtime. Added error explaining what is happening and why it wont work ([976663](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/instantiating-a-shader-causes-player-to-crash))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed current camera changing when setting camera render target during OnPreRender
    
*   Graphics: Fixed CustomRenderTexture initialization shader texcoord for 3D textures. ([949364](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-z-coordinate-in-unitycustomrendertexture-dot-cginc))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed editor crashes when changing DX11 to OpenGL ([976493](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-crashes-when-restarting-to-change-graphics-api-from-directx-11-to-opengl))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Editor hanging or crashing when using a CustomRenderTexture with a shader that contains GrabPass ([948225](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nvidia-editor-freezes-or-crashes-when-initializing-customrendertexture-with-init-shader-that-contains-a-grabpass))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed error message "Invalid antiAliasing value (must be at least 1)" when antiAliasing is disabled. ([967248](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/antialiasing-invalid-antialiasing-value-must-be-at-least-1-error-on-antialiasing-disabled))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed GLCore API crash when using indirect buffer as rw buffer ([985457](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/glcore-crash-when-using-indirect-args-buffer-as-rwbuffer))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed importing of KTX textures sometimes resulting in artefacts ([976670](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-specific-ktx-texture-with-etc2-dot-0-and-alpha-channel-has-artifacts-on-images-top))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed incorrect batch breaking message for instancing batches when they reach the maximum batch size. ([916897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/framedebugger-gpu-instancing-incorrect-batch-breaking-message-when-instanced-batch-has-reached-its-maximum-size))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed incorrect Line Renderer being rendered in scene/game window when selecting an object in the Project window ([972298](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/line-renderer-is-render-in-scene-slash-game-window-when-selecting-object-in-the-project-window))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed internal assertion in Linux GL while preparing compute buffers (914193)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed interop of Texture2D.GetNativeTexturePtr and Texture2D.Apply on Metal ([933234](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-texture2d-dot-getnativetextureptr-creates-a-new-texture-and-returns-pointer-to-the-new-texture-instead-of-the-original))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Metal api crash related to unbound textures due to dirty cache (1002408)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed range slider for shader properties named \_Shininess behaving like a power slider on user-defined shaders. ([965967](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/value-of-the-shader-property-jumps-from-minimum-value-to-0-dot-1-when-it-is-defined-with-range-min-max))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed resetting custom camera projection matrix when capturing super-sampled screenshot ([988870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screencapture-dot-capturescreenshot-with-supersize-parameter-greater-than-1-resets-camera-projection-matrix))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed ScreenCapture.CaptureScreenshotAsTexture yielding a transparent texture when trying to render it ([991764](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-screencapture-dot-capturescreenshotastexture-yields-a-transparent-texture))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed SRP occlusion culling visualization (1009671)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed SystemInfo.SupportsTextureFormat incorrectly returning false for RGB24 and ARGB32 formats. (995867)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Texture2D.GetPixels returning bad data when used on textures compresses with ASTC ([1008349](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-converting-texture-from-astc-4x4-format-to-rgba32-drops-quality-when-using-getpixels-and-setpixels))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Texture2D.PackTextures for ETC2\_RGBA (1019566)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Vulkan validation layer errors when swiching to and from fullscreen. (941149, [960940](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vk-fullscreen-on-1070-cards-causes-black-screen-flickering))
    
*   Graphics: Fox for OpenGLES crash on IOS in specific circumstances (989484)
    
*   Graphics: Improve Vulkan memory management to avoid hitting limit of 4096 memory allocations (941409)
    
*   Graphics: Made enum fields work with float values ([898536](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enum-shader-property-does-not-allow-fraction-selection-in-drop-down-menu))
    
*   Graphics: MeshRenderer.AdditionalVertexStreams collapse static meshes (regression since 5.4b18) ([806357](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/meshrenderer-dot-additionalvertexstreams-collapse-static-meshes))
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Always use linear shadow samplers for compute shaders
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fixed CubeArray RenderTexture support
    
*   Graphics: Metal: fixed MSAA behavior when using RenderPass
    
*   Graphics: Open LookDev window spams NullReferenceException errors when there is no Main Camera in the scene ([1005537](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/open-lookdev-window-spams-nullreferenceexception-errors-when-there-is-no-main-camera-in-the-scene))
    
*   Graphics: Optimisation for GLES dynamic buffers to invalidate specific range instead of the whole buffer (985468)
    
*   Graphics: Shaders: make sure we treat d3d9 hlsl semantics in a case-insensitive manner (as they should be by the spec) (1000130)
    
*   Graphics: This change fixed Android/OpenGLES Cubemap native texture not being registered correctly and causing CopyTexture to fail (1008127)
    
*   IL2CPP: Provide the initial value of blittable types passed as out parameters via an extern static method to the callee. ([988907](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-il2cpp-the-c-plus-plus-code-generation-done-by-il2cpp-is-wrong-when-using-the-c-number-out-keyword))
    
*   iOS: Added a Provisioning Profile type property, it should be set automatically for profiles available locally or using a dropdown if it's not available. (996755)
    
*   iOS: Correct processing of touch canceled events ([973437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/iphone-x-navigating-to-home-will-press-buttons-located-at-the-bottom-of-the-screen))
    
*   iOS: Do not allow illegal format or illegal characters in iOS build version and number strings ([988173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-error-invalidcharacter-while-compiling))
    
*   iOS: Fix awake/start order when loading scene additively in Awake ([898537](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-awake-start-order-is-different-when-loading-multiple-scenes))
    
*   iOS: Fix Display.SetResolution to work on ios during first frame ([995079](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-display-dot-setresolution-silently-fails-during-first-frame))
    
*   iOS: Fix for VideoPlayer sometimes does not resume after minimising and maximising an application on iOS 11 ([973770](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios11-videoplayer-video-does-not-resume-playing-after-minimising-and-maximising-an-application))
    
*   iOS: Fixed crash when calling native UIViewController that changes orientation settings ([984517](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-when-calling-native-uiviewcontroller-that-changes-orientation-settings))
    
*   iOS: Fixed keyboard not showing on iOS11 when external screen is connected ([967283](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-11-tapping-on-the-input-field-doesnt-open-keyboard-if-the-external-monitor-is-connected))
    
*   iOS: GameCenter and Push Notification entitlements are now created and added to Xcode projects. ([790835](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-push-notifications-not-enabled-in-xcode-project-when-notificationservices-are-used), [909963](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-gamecenter-game-center-etitlement-not-added-to-project-when-social-api-is-used-in-project))
    
*   iOS: Make UnityViewControllerBase+iOS.h coompatible with objective-c ([793420](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-ios-trampoline-extern-c-doesnt-work-with-objective-c))
    
*   iOS: Metal: depth clip mode is effective on iOS and tvOS too (1008141)
    
*   iOS: Metal: Fix MSAA corner case causing warning messages and validation error ([972398](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-metal-cant-set-ksurfaceuseresolvedbuffer-surface-flag-errors-appear-when-cameras-clearing-is-set-to-depth-only))
    
*   iOS: Metal: Fixed Frame Debugger not working ([971887](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-meshes-are-almost-black-on-device-screen-when-going-through-the-events-in-the-frame-debugger))
    
*   iOS: Metal: made ETC1 format supported (it is loaded as ETC2 which is intended by ETC2 spec) ([983427](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-etc-texture-format-is-not-supported-decompressing-texture-for-rgb-etc-normal-map-textures))
    
*   iOS: Metal: Some fixes for deferred renderloop ([980122](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-hdr-defered-screen-and-objects-are-filled-with-black-squares))
    
*   iOS: Now external screen RenderBuffer will respect QualitySettings, e.g. MSAA set (967286)
    
*   iOS: Standard Shader: Fixed issues with specular when Box Projection is enabled ([960985](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mobile-enabling-box-projection-creates-visible-artifacts))
    
*   Kernel: Fixed collapsing treeview branch when sub-item was selected in another frame ([988266](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/impossible-to-collapse-profilers-hierarchy-drop-down-menu))
    
*   Kernel: Fixed Profiler Hierarchy view forcing repaints every frame when frame data is invalid
    
*   Kernel: MemorySnapshots now report ScriptableObjects as expected ([983804](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scriptableobject-is-recognized-as-monobehaviour-in-the-snapshot-dot-nativetypes-array))
    
*   Kernel: Prevent unnecessary thread stalls when using Time.captureFramerate()
    
*   Licenses: Fixed activation license receive "Something is wrong" error in launcher in special scenario (1006601)
    
*   Licenses: Removed duplicated confirmation steps in return license ([991220](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-on-clicking-no-button-on-confirm-pop-up-while-returning-the-license))
    
*   Linux: Fix crash in Vulkan on Linux when using SteamVR (987268)
    
*   Linux: Fix Linux touch input for mouse events (947049)
    
*   Linux: Fixed crashes in the Progressive Lightmapper on Linux Editor ([913799](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-building-progressive-lightmapper-crashes-unity))
    
*   OSX: Fixed issue in macOS Editor - Game view, where locked mouse cursor was offset 39 pixels above center of window ([770944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mouse-position-first-person-controller-mouse-position-does-not-appear-in-the-middle-in-osx-editor))
    
*   OSX: Fixed Quit menu and CMD-Q not working in Unity launcher on macOS ([978777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cmd-q-quit-doesnt-work-for-macos-launch-window))
    
*   OSX: Fixed Screen.resolutions having refresh rate 0 ([902689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-dot-resolutions-return-refresh-rate-as-a-0-on-mac-displays-both-retina-and-non-retina))
    
*   Package Manager: Allow managed code in packages to be stripped. ([1003047](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-build-size-increase-for-empty-project))
    
*   Package Manager: Package Manager would prevent a project stored on OneDrive from being loaded ([981002](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-packagemanager-packageassets-registerpackages-after-opening-a-project-stored-in-cloud-storage))
    
*   Particles: Add error message if texture used in the Shape Module is not read/write ([1007147](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-with-shape-texture-are-not-rendered-when-in-built-project))
    
*   Particles: Allow smaller radius in the Shape Module ([1014298](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shape-investigate-possibility-of-decreasing-the-min-shape-emitter-size-below-0-dot-01))
    
*   Particles: Clamp alpha output in the legacy particle shaders, to ensure compatibility with HDR ([967476](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-particles-slash-alpha-blended-material-inverts-colors-of-other-blended-objects))
    
*   Particles: Clamp Duration property to a sensible minimum ([1014792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-typing-a-decimal-value-or-0-into-duration-throws-asserts))
    
*   Particles: Clamp start rotation to sensible values ([979684](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-disappears-when-start-rotation-is-set-to-a-high-number))
    
*   Particles: Don't skip emission when timestep is equal to duration ([993359](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-prewarm-only-works-when-the-duration-is-higher-than-1-dot-00))
    
*   Particles: EmitParams.velocity was occasionally ignored when Shape Module was checked ([990696](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particlesystems-emitparams-dot-velocity-is-ignored-when-shape-is-checked))
    
*   Particles: Ensure bounds are correct when using the Transform in the Shape Module ([994938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-particle-bounds-are-not-updated-slash-calculated-correctly-in-edit-mode))
    
*   Particles: Ensure seeds are reset when emitting via script for the first time, to fix a determinism issue (993020)
    
*   Particles: Fix calculation of Particle System bounds, when scale is non-uniform. ([977520](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-bounds-are-not-being-calculated-correctly-when-transform-scale-is-non-uniform))
    
*   Particles: Fix crash when setting mismatched curve modes from script, and display error message ([1006435](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-build-crashes-in-animationcurvetpl-evaluate-when-assigning-minmaxcurve-to-velocityoverlifeteimemodule-dot-x))
    
*   Particles: Fix incorrect error message when deleting Particle Systems while the Standard Particle Shader Inspector is visible ([970414](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesstandardunlit-shader-causes-missingreferenceexception-when-particle-system-stopaction-is-set-to-destroy))
    
*   Particles: Fix rateOverDistance script getter, so it actually works! ([1013161](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/loaded-assets-rateoverdistance-value-is-reset-to-zero-when-fields-value-is-printed-out-with-debug-dot-log))
    
*   Particles: Fix subtle floating point error when sorting by youngest/oldest, whcih could cause incorrect sorting ([988874](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-particles-flicker-when-they-have-a-random-start-life-time-and-sort-mode-set-to-youngest-or-oldest-in-front))
    
*   Particles: Fixed int values being clamped into float range in the inspector. ([981727](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-dot-randomseed-inaccurate-with-large-numbers))
    
*   Particles: Handle zero scale in the Scene View gizmos for the Shape Module ([1015538](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalid-aabb-a-exception-is-thrown-when-shapes-scale-on-one-axis-is-set-to-0))
    
*   Particles: Improve dynamic batching, to correctly handle systems containing no particles ([1006947](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-particle-effect-draw-calls-do-not-batch-together))
    
*   Particles: Make better estimate of emit accumulator for distance emission, when using more than 2 birth sub-emitters ([992266](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/if-3-or-more-subemitters-are-assigned-to-the-same-spawning-emitter-emission-over-distance-of-the-first-subemitter-is-glitched))
    
*   Particles: Mesh particle pivot offset now factors in Transform scale ([1012983](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-mesh-pivot-offset-doesnt-take-scale-into-account))
    
*   Particles: ParticleSystems now convert their colors into Linear Space before uploading to the GPU, in order to be more gamma-correct. Existing systems are not modified automatically. ([963250](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linear-color-space-doesnt-reproduce-accurate-particle-colors))
    
*   Particles: Smarter logic for when automatic culling can be used ([991235](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-culling-is-disables-even-with-a-non-animated-random-shape-emission))
    
*   Physics: Clamp materials' static and dynamic friction to \[0, inf) ([968086](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-black-screen-on-android-devices-when-using-vector3-dot-smoothdamp))
    
*   Physics: Cloth, reset coefficients if mesh has changed type. Keep coefficients for similar mesh types. ([962027](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-a-mesh-is-assigned-to-a-skinnedmeshrenderer-with-a-cloth-component-attached-the-cloth-loses-its-constraints-if-its-active))
    
*   Physics: Fix a crash inside PhysX when performing box query on Android ([878407](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-physx-crash-when-calling-physics-dot-overlapboxnonalloc-or-overlapbox))
    
*   Physics: Fix a crash trying to generate mesh-mesh collisions in the mode that enables kinematic and static collision pairs ([980186](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-physx-pxcdiscretenarrowphasepcm-after-entering-a-play-mode-if-convex-propertie-on-mesh-collider-is-disabled))
    
*   Physics: Fix a crash when deactivating a rigidbody that has WheelCollider components both as sibing and as a child ([976095](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-rigidbody-cleanupinternal-on-disabling-gameobject-with-rigidbody-and-wheel-collider-components))
    
*   Physics: Fix a crash when entering playmode, if user has imported a package that changes physics settings ([958230](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-crash-on-physicsmanager-setcollidertransform-while-entering-playmode-after-reloading-scene-that-had-changes-on-disk), [983579](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-after-closing-if-project-settings-folder-is-changed))
    
*   Physics: Fix a performance issue that arose when reparenting lots of colliders (918283)
    
*   Physics: Fix an issue that Cloth component may be disabled permenantly if its gameobject is turned off/on in playmode ([987906](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/turning-off-and-turning-on-game-object-with-cloth-component-in-play-mode-disables-cloth-component-permanently))
    
*   Physics: Fix an issue where animated rigid bodies do not affect other rigid bodies connected through joint ([996194](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animated-rigidbodies-no-longer-affect-other-rigidbodies-connected-through-joints))
    
*   Physics: Fix an issue where Cloth component wmay lose its constraints if mesh is assigned to the related SkinnedmeshRenderer ([962027](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-a-mesh-is-assigned-to-a-skinnedmeshrenderer-with-a-cloth-component-attached-the-cloth-loses-its-constraints-if-its-active))
    
*   Physics: Fix an issue where cloth vertices are not updated after changing the SkinnedMeshRenderer's mesh. ([973464](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-appear-when-hovering-mouse-over-scene-window-after-changing-skinnedmeshrenderers-mesh-when-object-also-has-cloth))
    
*   Physics: Fix ComputePenetration and ClosestPoint not using the correct orientation of a CharacterController ([1002396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/charactercontroller-dot-closestpoint-return-value-is-not-based-on-the-colliders-shape))
    
*   Physics: Fix double full stop added to the dropdown boxes in the physics settings ([958814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/double-full-stop-dot-at-the-end-of-the-sentence-in-the-projectsettings-slash-physics-tooltips))
    
*   Physics: Fix for issue with permanently disabled cloth component. ([987906](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/turning-off-and-turning-on-game-object-with-cloth-component-in-play-mode-disables-cloth-component-permanently))
    
*   Physics: Fix issue where MeshCollider is added to prefab in Hierarchy when selected from the project folder ([960479](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mesh-collider-keeps-adding-on-prefab-in-the-hierarchy-when-selecting-it-from-the-project-folder))
    
*   Physics: Fix kinematic bodies not updating their transforms when a parent Rigidbody was moved ([978753](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/kinematic-rigidbody-collision-is-not-updated-when-the-it-is-instantiated-as-a-child-under-non-kinematic-rigidbody))
    
*   Physics: Fix memory leak when re-sizing box colliders ([957333](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-in-system-dot-executableanddlls-when-game-object-scale-with-collider-component-attached-is-increased), [969368](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-memory-leak-when-resizing-boxcolliders-in-update))
    
*   Physics: Fix rigidbody interpolation using incorrect poses since 2017.2 sometimes, and jittering because of that ([971056](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-rigidbody-interpolation-causes-objects-to-jitter))
    
*   Physics: Fix Rigidbody.addExplosiveForce acting in the wrong space when its transfom was changed but not synced this frame ([1004443](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody-not-affected-by-rigidbody-dot-addexplosionforce-immediately-after-changing-objects-transform-position))
    
*   Physics: Fix Rigidbody.addForceAtPos acting in the wrong space when its transfom was changed but not synced this frame ([984525](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-starts-rotating-when-a-force-is-applied-to-the-center-of-its-mass-and-along-its-up-vector))
    
*   Physics: Fix Rigidbody.addRelativeForce acting in the wrong space when its transform was changed but not synced this frame ([969743](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/auto-sync-transforms-does-not-sync-correctly-when-using-addrelativeforce))
    
*   Physics: Fix WheelCollider's damping rate being reverted to the default value when entering play mode ([985034](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics-inconsistent-wheel-colider-behavior-if-wheel-coliders-exist-during-scene-start), [985046](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wheelcollider-damping-rate-value-is-ignored-if-set-in-edit-mode))
    
*   Physics: Regenerate last vertices list when skinned mesh renderer mesh changes ([973464](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-appear-when-hovering-mouse-over-scene-window-after-changing-skinnedmeshrenderers-mesh-when-object-also-has-cloth))
    
*   Playables: Fix to allow binding of audio outputs to gameObject (963185)
    
*   Player: Allow large Time.timeScale() values when running in a player
    
*   Player: Fix bug in Windows were clicking on app icon/label in taskbar to minimize didn't pause player ([663766](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sound-from-a-build-starts-playing-if-it-is-defocused))
    
*   Profiler: Fix incorrect Non matching Profiler.EndSample (BeginSample and EndSample count must match) when profiling nested samples in deep profiling mode ([996666](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/beginsample-and-endsample-count-must-match-error-when-deep-profiling-a-nested-sample))
    
*   Profiler: Fix missing format extension for binary logging, added .raw extension to our binary format. ([987943](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-dot-enablebinarylog-does-not-create-data-file))
    
*   Profiler: Fix Profiler.enableBinaryLog to release files when set to false ([980524](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-file-created-with-profiler-dot-logfile-is-not-updated-with-profiled-information-until-editor-is-closed-or-reopened))
    
*   Scripting: Fix crash when calling DestroyImmediate in MonoBehaviour.Reset ([720677](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-crashes-when-adding-a-component-with-a-destroyimmediate-call-in-its-reset-message), [900003](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-in-mono-object-isinst-while-in-play-mode), [906117](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scripting-connectscriptingwrappertoobject-crash-when-entering-play-mode), [969313](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-if-object-instantiated-in-runtimeinitializeonloadmethod-is-destroyed-with-destroyimmediate-gameobject-in-awake))
    
*   Scripting: Fix crash when cloning a MonoBehaviour that calls DestroyImmediate on it self or it's game object in Awake ([720677](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-crashes-when-adding-a-component-with-a-destroyimmediate-call-in-its-reset-message), [900003](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-in-mono-object-isinst-while-in-play-mode), [906117](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scripting-connectscriptingwrappertoobject-crash-when-entering-play-mode), [969313](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-if-object-instantiated-in-runtimeinitializeonloadmethod-is-destroyed-with-destroyimmediate-gameobject-in-awake))
    
*   Scripting: Fix issue with scripts in the editor being compiled with ENABLE\_IL2CPP instead of ENABLE\_MONO in some cases (954003)
    
*   Scripting: Fixed a crash where users could deregister main thread profiling ([980553](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-profiling-profiler-flushchannels-after-using-profiler-dot-endthreadprofiling))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed EditorApplication.delayCall not run when being called from batch mode ([877208](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/yield-waitforendofframe-never-happens-in-batchmode), 948840)
    
*   Scripting: JsonUtility is now able to parse bool values and 64-bit integer values in quotes.
    
*   Scripting: Report failure to overwrite assemblies during compilation in Editor ([988650](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-doesnt-show-error-when-it-can-not-overwrite-a-script-assembly))
    
*   Scripting: Scripted Importers where getting wrongly unloaded by the asset GC ([1013514](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-crashes-at-mono-class-init-when-exiting-play-mode-with-custom-asset-selected))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix IPGlobalProperties.GetActiveUdpListeners returning incorrect port number ([1006506](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/call-to-ipglobalproperties-dot-getactiveudplisteners-returns-correct-ip-but-wrong-port-number))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix unexpected behavior processing async/await continuations ([991724](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/backgroundworkers-completion-callback-doesnt-get-called-at-the-end-of-the-task), [1006978](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/await-tasks-are-not-finished-if-timescale-equals-0))
    
*   Services: Fix build failure when Performance Reporting is enabled but service is unavailable ([980543](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-unity-editor-fails-to-build-project-when-performance-reporting-is-enabled))
    
*   Services: Fix exception when building in Cloud Build with Performance Reporting enabled (996948)
    
*   Services: Fix possible crash with Performance Reporting enabled ([965024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-with-signal-11-sigsegv-code-1-when-using-try-catch-on-null-value-with-performance-reporting-enabled))
    
*   Services: Fix possible crash with Performance Reporting enabled ([965024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-with-signal-11-sigsegv-code-1-when-using-try-catch-on-null-value-with-performance-reporting-enabled))
    
*   Services: Performance Reporting: Report device model field for Managed Exceptions ([980806](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/device-model-is-not-reported-to-performance-reporting-service-for-managed-exceptions))
    
*   Services: Upload symbols from Windows IL2CPP builds to Performance Reporting service. ([1009908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/symbols-are-not-uploaded-to-performance-reporting-service-for-windows-il2cpp-builds))
    
*   Shaders: Added support for uint types to Vulkan shader compiler (987091)
    
*   Shaders: Fixed shader compilation generation bug translating MOVC incorrectly from vector to scalar. (988727)
    
*   Shaders: HLSLcc: Fixed an issue where the shader interpolators would sometimes have missing interpolation qualifiers ([919351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-does-not-compile-under-glsl-due-to-miscompilation))
    
*   Shaders: Shader Compiler: GL ES / Metal / Vulkan: Fixed incorrect shader code generation in certain cases ([1003016](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/compute-shader-with-transparency-fails-to-compile-under-opengl))
    
*   Terrain: Fixed crash in SplatMaterials::FindMaterialProperties when opening a scene with specific Material and Terrain combination ([919769](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-splatmaterials-findmaterialproperties-when-opening-a-scene-with-a-certain-terrain-and-material-combination))
    
*   Timeline: Changes to materials during animation recording affect every object using the same material ([952127](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-changes-to-materials-during-animation-recording-affect-every-object-using-the-same-material))
    
*   Timeline: Clicking on Delete from the Edit menu does not delete Timeline clips and tracks (1021728)
    
*   Timeline: Duplicate shortcut is not aligned in context menu on OSX (958533)
    
*   Timeline: Fix assigning prefabs to AnimationTracks (879957)
    
*   Timeline: Fix for drag and drop of fbx files on track bindings (884010)
    
*   Timeline: Fix for scrubbing of timelines when prefabs are assigned to bindings causing performance problems (945071)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed particle sub systems being simulated multiple times when controlled by Timeline Control Track. Could cause stuttering and performance issues.
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Activation Track Add Clip does not respect mouse position (979690)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed an issue where pasting group tracks to a timeline asset would break the source asset (1006986)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Animation playable asset are shown in timeline after an undo (896196)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed ArgumentException being thrown when resizing Timeline window ([952571](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentexception-when-resizing-timeline-window))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed back the context menu on Group track (985573)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Copied clip in different timeline get saved under the original asset (975840)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Copy paste track behave differently than the hierarchy (962092)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed drag'n drop of animation clip and adding new clip via menu not framing and selecting the new clip properly (969698)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Duplicated Timeline asset causes very bad performance in preview ([976646](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-duplicated-timeline-asset-causes-very-bad-performance-in-preview))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issue where clip edit modes were changed when editing values in the inspector (1008549)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issue where pasting a timeline group track would break the source asset (1006986)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issue where the default color would not appear on custom timeline tracks (1008551)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issues related to improper handling of mouse up events in Timeline Window (876020, [946823](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-a-clip-in-the-timeline-and-releasing-drag-outside-of-the-timeline-window-freezes-clip), [950972](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-time-indicator-moves-instead-of-selecting-a-clip), [972036](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selection-box-gets-stuck-in-timeline-when-releasing-left-or-right-mouse-button-outside-of-timeline-window), [972040](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mouse-icon-is-stuck-at-hand-in-timeline-window-after-middle-mouse-button-was-released-outside-of-timeline-window))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Lock/Mute on multiple track will not undo properly (999987)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Lost "Add Key" option in the Inspector on Override Tracks (974656)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed moving an undoed clip with the inspector in replace mode will duplicate it (988553)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Null Reference Exception when opening editor that had Timeline window focused (1005384)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Override Track separated from parent track if both selected after drag-and-dropping into Track Group ([973238](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/override-track-separated-from-parent-track-if-both-selected-after-drag-and-dropping-into-track-group))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed particle system playing too fast when controlled by Timeline Control Track ([938726](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-plays-faster-in-timeline-compared-to-simulated-in-the-editor))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Playhead is reset to zero when there a domain reload (965055)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Timeline Control Track not applying start delay to particles ([968516](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-control-track-with-particle-system-creating-huge-delays), [987068](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/start-delay-of-particle-system-is-not-applied-when-object-is-in-timeline))
    
*   UI: A driven RectTransform could cause a scene to be constantly flagged as dirty. ([966172](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-gets-dirtied-after-pressing-play-it-may-be-related-to-layout-groups))
    
*   UI: Added characterLimit property for TouchScreenKeyboard
    
*   UI: Added the ability to cull UI meshes based on the alpha of vertex color. ([986003](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/100-percent-transparent-images-still-have-drawcalls-in-ui))
    
*   UI: AspectRatioFitter did not drive the RectTransform on the first frame. ([988706](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-aspectratiofitter-with-envelope-parent-mode-doesnt-control-the-recttransform-at-the-first-frame-after-changing-the-scene))
    
*   UI: Fix exception/crash which affects AOT platforms after building UI System DLLs using Visual Studio C# compiler. (877060)
    
*   UI: Fix instances where Font.textureRebuilt would not be called even though the internal texture was regenerated ([939853](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/font-dot-texturerebuilt-does-not-always-get-called-when-textures-are-generated))
    
*   UI: Fix issue where CanvasRenderer.GetMateral and CanvasRenderer.GetPopMateral would always return material at index zero ([973893](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-getmaterial-function-of-the-canvasrenderer-class-always-returns-material-at-index-0))
    
*   UI: Fixed issue where unrelated canvases would be dirtied and re-batched when changes to a canvas hierarchy would occur ([926629](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/all-canvases-in-the-scene-is-being-rebuilt))
    
*   UI: Make sure that OnEndDrag callback is called when dragging and the app loses focus ([937370](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onenddrag-slash-ienddraghandler-callback-is-not-invoked))
    
*   UI: Position and rotation specified when calling Object.Instantiate was not applied properly for a RectTransform ([980300](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/instantiating-prefab-with-recttransform-places-it-in-00-z-position-instead-of-parent-position))
    
*   UI: Properly update the Lighting window when switching the active scene ([916245](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/skybox-field-doesnt-show-the-correct-value-when-working-with-multiple-scenes))
    
*   UI: Re-enabled public access to BaseInputModule.inputOverride
    
*   UI: UIElements: The slider does not call its callback in its constructor anymore. (969442)
    
*   UI: Undoing the activation of a UI layout component did not undo the side effects to the children RectTransforms. (985156)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixed allowing DirectX 12 to be the only selected graphics API in order to be consistent with the Windows Standalone player ([1014404](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-user-can-set-graphic-apis-to-dx12-only))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixed issue with left/right Shift keys not being distiguished (both returned as LeftShift) ([968801](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-builds-do-not-distinguish-between-left-and-right-shift-keys-when-checking-input))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes issue, exposed on HoloLens, with Gamepad and Joystick input incorrectly read in UWP apps (841724)
    
*   Video: A specific mp4 video audio plays slower than video ([963209](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/videoplayer-a-specific-mp4-video-audio-plays-slower-than-video))
    
*   Video: Changing the AudioManager settings while playing a video clip floods console with errors corrupting sound channels (999195)
    
*   Video: Disabling the audio track and then trying to retrieve the samples does not throw any exception (992000)
    
*   Video: Fix flickering video playback on iOS/Metal. ([972997](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-is-flickering))
    
*   Video: Fix for iOS crash playing back heavy video at fast playback speeds ([958487](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-videoplayer-app-crashes-and-device-gets-disconnected-when-playback-speed-is-increased))
    
*   Video: Fixed (on OSX) enabling looping and changing speed no longer starts video playback ([935503](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enabling-loop-and-changing-playback-speed-starts-video-playback))
    
*   Video: Fixed bug when overriding default transcoding options causing video previewer to have wrong size ([973022](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/overriding-default-video-dimensions-fails-in-certain-cases))
    
*   Video: Fixed darkened Video previews in Linear Color Space ([962142](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-videos-are-dark-when-using-linear-color-space))
    
*   Video: Fixed Editor freeze when pausing/playing video multiple times on OSX ([1016417](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/h264-editor-freezes-when-pausing-slash-playing-video-multiple-times))
    
*   Video: Pause/Unpause causes the ConsumeSampleFrames API to discard samples of mp4 video clip ([991218](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/videoplayer-pause-slash-unpause-causes-the-consumesampleframes-api-to-discard-samples-of-mp4-video-clip))
    
*   Video: Stuttering sound of mp4 files, video lags ([899620](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/win-stuttering-sound-of-mp4-files-video-lags))
    
*   Web: Fix exception in UnityWebRequest on empty url ([981192](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unitywebrequest-wrong-error-code-is-returned-if-url-loading-receives-a-system-error))
    
*   Web: Fix native UnityWebRequest not destroyed until garbage collected even if explicitly disposed (984996)
    
*   Web: Fix UnityWebRequest not aborted if Abort() called before sending ([977469](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unitywebrequest-dot-abort-does-not-abort-sendwebrequest))
    
*   Web: Fix UnityWebRequest with file URIs containing query or fragment ([992937](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/www-fails-loading-asset-from-streamingassets-if-there-is-a-query-string-in-the-url))
    
*   WebGL: Fix '/b' added to inputString on keyup event ([981495](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inputstring-reports-2-inputs-for-backspace-in-webgl))
    
*   WebGL: Fix mouse button state after mouse drag ([905712](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-mouse-gets-stuck-in-state-of-getmousebutton-0-always-returning-true))
    
*   WebGL: Fix playBuffer exception when there is no audio output on Safari ([960863](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-missing-or-broken-sound-device-crashes-webgl-application-in-safari))
    
*   WebGL: Fix Webcam support on Firefox and Safari ([1005628](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/safari-firefox-webcamtexture-no-longer-working))
    
*   WebGL: Make StreamingAssets path relative to the generated json ([951333](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/streamingassetspath-is-not-relative-to-unityloader-dot-js))
    
*   Windows: Fix Application.targetFrameRate not working in batch mode when VSync is on ([982337](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/high-cpu-usage-when-starting-standalone-in-a-batchmode))
    
*   Windows: Fix writing incorrect FullScreenState value to Registry when Exclusive mode Player is minimized (1010903)
    
*   Windows: Fixed CVE-2015-0941 HTTPS mitm vulnerability in Unity Windows Installers
    
*   Windows: Fixed Default Screen width/height setting in Editor not being used in Standalone player when running in Windowed mode ([968584](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-default-is-native-resolution-overrides-window-width-slash-height-when-full-screen-is-disabled))
    
*   Windows: Fixed player not using native resolution on startup if previously it used native resolution but the native resolution of the monitor changed since the last launch ([730221](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/default-is-native-resolution-not-working-with-the-resolution-dialog-disabled-after-screen-resolution-was-changed))
    
*   Windows: Fixed primary game window minimizing when clicking on a secondary window in full screen mode ([977772](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clicking-on-one-of-two-screens-will-call-screen-dot-setresolution-and-collapse-the-other-screen))
    
*   Windows: Remove "Launch Unity" option from Windows installers, to prevent running Unity as elevated process ([975351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/files-cannot-be-dragged-from-file-explorer-to-project-view))
    
*   XR: Dont track focus loss in Windows MR (970895)
    
*   XR: Fix a crash that would occur if an application used Unity's Spatial Mapping component without VR being enabled or without using Windows Mixed Reality. (973172)
    
*   XR: Fix crash on HoloLens when trying to use touch keyboard (978116)
    
*   XR: Fix editor crash when connecting device after entering play mode. ([980089](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-stop-playing-a-scene-after-xrdevice-dot-enabled-equals-true-at-runtime))
    
*   XR: Fix screenshot capture in VR ([956227](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screencapture-dot-capturescreenshot-is-not-working-in-mixed-reality-when-running-from-a-build))
    
*   XR: Fixed issue with lights failing to completely illuminate scene geometry during multi-pass forward stereo rendering. ([965494](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mixed-reality-spot-or-point-lighting-problem-in-windows-mixed-reality))
    
*   XR: Fixing log spam when app starts disconnected from Windows MR HMD and crash when HMD is reconnected. ([950796](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windowsmr-rendering-2017-plugging-a-hmd-with-a-running-mr-app-causes-performance-to-drop-from-a-warning-spam))
    
*   XR: Running Holographic Simulation on a new Windows Mixed Reality project will no longer fail to start in simulation mode the first time the project is run. ([1006653](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windowsmr-emulation-trunk-windows-mr-sdk-is-failing-to-initialize-when-using-simulation))
    
*   XR: Update Google VR NDK to 1.130 for Android, 1.120 for iOS ([991127](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/still-investigating-cardboard-vr-cardboard-vr-fails-to-initialize-on-certain-android-devices))