5.5.0f1 Release Notes (Delta since b11)
---------------------------------------

### System Requirements Changes

*   OSX 10.8 support is deprecated and will be dropped in the near future. OSX 10.9 and above is therefore recommended.
*   Samsung TV 2013 and 2014 support will be dropped in the near future.

### Known Issues

*   Asset Import: Crash at "AssetBundleLoadFromAsyncOperation::TryToLoadAndInitializeAssetBundle" when AssetBundle is created incrementally (849633)
*   Asset Import: Occlusion Culling: Unity editor will crash when reading a scene with occlusion culling from asset bundle. (846853)
*   Editor: Opened Editor crashes after some period of inactivity (851796)
*   Editor: Play mode performance regression. (848131)
*   Editor: \[OSX\] After Unity crashes when rebaking lighting for Courtyard project, a Unity process is left over and has to be force closed. (834235)
*   iOS: Application.Unload () crashes on iOS when screen is being touched (852055)
*   Scripting: MonoDevelop doesn't stop on breakpoint for C# scripts. (851079)
*   UI: Undocked windows are placed behind the main window after assembly reload. (846877)
*   VR: Occlusion mesh artifacts on Oculus when using Single Pass Stereo. (850170)

### Backwards Compatibility Breaking Changes

*   Core: Using Object.Instantiate(Object, Transform) will now use the Object position as the local position by default. This is a change from the 5.4 behaviour, which used the Object position as world.

### Changes

*   GI: Deprecated the directional specular lightmap mode in Unity 5.5, since it will disappear in Unity 5.6 (as part of the lighting modes functionality).

### Improvements

*   Android: Added "Mute Other Audio Sources" option to Android player settings in the editor (shared with iOS).
*   Android: Enabled TLSv1.1 and TLSv1.2 for JellyBean and KitKat devices.
*   Android: Enhanced big.LITTLE core detection. This fixes core detection on Parker.
*   GI: Improved the additive loading error thrown when scenes have different lightmapping modes (made it more user friendly).

### API Changes

*   Texture Importer: Added GetAutomaticFormat API method to Texture Importer.

### Fixes

*   Android: Change to lower the background audio volume by default (instead of muting it), when running a game on the device. [(807983)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apps-without-audio-stop-the-external-audio-sources-on-android)
*   Android: Fixed input issues after tapping the splash screen. [(825716)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-tapping-on-the-splashscreeen-disables-touchphase-dot-began-and-touchphase-dot-end)
*   Android: Fixed startup crash on Adreno when protected graphics memory is used. [(832025)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-some-os-version-7-dot-0-devices-with-protect-graphics-memory-enabled-crash-on-startup)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where Legacy animations could not be previewed. [(845815)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/legacy-animations-do-not-animate-in-the-inspectors-preview-window)
*   Asset Import: Fixed case of blender file import not working (this is a port of the fix for https://fogbugz.unity3d.com/f/cases/778562, present in 5.4). [(843299)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blender-2-dot-78-crashes-and-models-get-corrupted-when-saving-directly-into-project-slash-assets-folder)
*   Collaboration: Fixed issue where closing the collaboration restore confirmation window by pressing 'X' would still restore it. [(830209)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/closing-collab-restore-confirmation-window-by-pressing-x-still-restores-it-to-the-selected-version)
*   Collaboration: Various bug and UI fixes.
*   Documentation: Android - Added a warning to the raw JNI interface description.
*   Editor: Fixed case of blank/grey webviews in the main window under macOS 10.12.1. (842708)
*   Editor: Fixed WebViewWindowPrivate::OnLoadEnd crash related to Collab Toolbar usage. (840217)
*   Graphics: Disabled instancing for renderers that use lightprobes or lightmaps, in order to optimize GPU performance. [(843125)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/5-dot-5-regression-50-percent-performance-drop-happens-when-upgrading-project-from-5-dot-4-to-5-dot-5)
*   iOS: Fixed touch input latency issues on iOS 10. [(817056)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-touch-input-drops-out-at-high-fps)
*   Launcher: Fixed Asset importing issues when creating new project from launcher. [(837516)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-osx-5-dot-5-gaia-package-cannot-be-imported-through-launcher-window)
*   Particles: Added missing animation bindings.
*   Particles: Fixed case of shape module single material index property cutting off when inspector was narrow.
*   Particles: Fixed issue where particle sub module parent was set incorrectly.
*   Physics: Fixed a memory leak that occured when applying animated non-uniform scaling to a MeshCollider. [(828570)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/having-an-animator-animating-a-non-uniformly-scaled-meshcollider-component-results-in-a-memory-leak)
*   Physics: Fixed a TerrainCollider crash that could be triggered when a capsule collided with an edge whose shared triangles had a hole material. (822486)
*   Physics: Fixed bug where MeshRenderer would occasionally miss a transform update from an interpolated kinematic Rigidbody. [(822406)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-rigidbody-dot-position-for-rigidbody-with-interpolation-enabled-doesnt-update-mesh-location)
*   Scene Manager: Fixed crash that could occur when user unloads a scene immediately after starting an asynchronous load of the scene. [(842396)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-unityscene-getbuildindex-const-when-scenemanager-dot-unloadscene-is-called-in-start-function)
*   SpeedTree: Fixed incorrect detail blending at branch seams.
*   Terrain: Fixed incorrect scaling of billboards when trees are rescaled using SetTreeInstance. [(849011)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/billboard-api-tree-billboard-scale-is-not-updated-correctly-when-calling-it-in-update-method)
*   VR: Fixed rendering issues when using the global fog standard asset in VR. (815914)

The following are changes and fixes to 5.5.0 features and regressions...
------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Improvements

*   Android: Added IL2CPP native builder for Android.
*   AR: DLLs to support Holographic Emulation are now only loaded on demand. This reduces Editor launch times.
*   Scripting: Enabled C# compiler optimizations for non-development players.

### Fixes

*   Android: Fixed an issue where ApplicationModeVR would throw an error in the log file.
*   Android: Improved temp cache and persistent data paths code to avoid empty paths. [(826201)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-dot-persistentdatapath-returns-external-storage-path-regardless-write-access-setting)
*   Android: OBB: Fixed loading performance regression, and case of split APK not running without OBB. (842286)
*   AR: Fixed issue preventing Holographic Emulation DLLs from loading.
*   Audio: Fixed a panning issue with spatialized sounds.
*   Editor: Fixed issue whereby shadow cascade split ratios could not be dragged. [(843901)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cant-change-shadow-cascade-split-ratios)
*   Editor: Fixed the logType returned in LogCallback on unhandled exceptions. [(814160)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-logcallback-has-a-type-of-logtype-dot-error-on-unhandled-exception)
*   Editor: Removed lingering 5.5 menu item Assets | Create | Scene Set, since the feature was removed in an earlier beta. [(840987)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/create-scene-set-throws-an-error)
*   Graphics: Fix to skip rendering of default reflection in Deferred mode when the reflection is not set. [(843813)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deferred-renderdeferred-dot-defaultreflection-pass-is-done-when-default-reflection-probe-is-null)
*   Graphics: Fixed an issue where OnAwake Reflection Probes would capture the scene with black real-time lightmaps. [(837471)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-texture-loading-problem-after-switching-from-a-scene-with-light-probes)
*   Graphics: Fixed case of directional lightmaps on some Mobile platforms being encoded as RGBM by mistake. (833583)
*   Graphics: Fixed issue where dynamic batching stats / profiling info would not update correctly after dynamic batching threading changes. [(836850)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/perforance-decrease-when-updating-from-5-dot-3-to-5-dot-5)
*   Graphics: Fixed issue where Graphics.DrawMeshInstanced would only render the first submesh. [(845514)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graphics-dot-drawmeshinstanced-ignores-submesh-index-and-always-draws-first-submesh)
*   Graphics: Fixed isue where static batching optimizations could result in more material SetPass calls than previously in some cases. [(836850)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/perforance-decrease-when-updating-from-5-dot-3-to-5-dot-5)
*   Graphics: Fixed selection of objects in Scene View if the scene contains reflective water (previously some objects could not be selected). [(769758)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/objects-in-scene-view-become-impossible-to-select-if-scene-contains-reflective-water)
*   Graphics: Frame Debugger: fixed case of some draw calls not being attributed to static or dynamic batching properly. [(836850)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/perforance-decrease-when-updating-from-5-dot-3-to-5-dot-5)
*   iOS: Build and Run no longer cleans Xcode projects for Append builds. [(839037)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-unity-build-and-run-triggers-an-xcode-clean-even-if-append-is-selected)
*   Mac Editor: Fixed case of editor crashing when 'Build And Run' is opening the built Xcode (version 8.x) project with macOS Sierra. [(836165)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-build-and-run-is-opening-the-built-xcode-project-with-macos-sierra)
*   Mac Editor: Fixed case of Unity hanging when using Build and Run while Xcode (version 7.x) is already running an app. [(843181)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-build-and-run-cmd-b-with-an-app-already-running-in-xcode-will-cause-unity-to-hang)
*   Metal: Fixed crash on Intel GPU when using 2xMSAA.
*   Mono: Android: Fixed error on startup with Mono scripting backend and stripping enabled. [(843494)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-on-startup-when-stripping-enabled-with-mono-backend)
*   Physics: Corrected raycasting on platforms where managed code stripping is used (such as WebGL and iOS). [(848670, 839233)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-physics-raycaster-does-not-work-with-il2cpp)
*   Physics: Fixed an internal edge contact issue occuring in PCM contact generation mode. [(845117)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cube-stumbles-while-sliding-down-the-plane-when-they-both-have-physics-material-with-0-friction)
*   Physics: Fixed issue where rotational constraints would be applied to a prefab incorrectly. [(841292)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody-rotation-constraints-are-lost-when-creating-a-prefab-with-rb)
*   Physics: Fixed issue where the wrong floating point mode was used by the physics code on android-x86 targets. This was causing accuracy issues with physics queries (casts, sweeps and overlaps). (825771)
*   Scene Manager: Fixed crash that could occur when user unloads a scene asynchronously while exiting play mode in the editor. [(840309)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unloadsceneasync-in-ondestroy-crashes-editor-when-exiting-play-mode-in-unityscene-unloadsceneobjects)
*   Scripting: Fixed regression in Object::Equals for destroyed objects.
*   SpeedTree: Reduced max batch size of SpeedTree instancing in order to reduce the shader compilation time. [(823603)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-5-dot-5-performance-editor-hangs-for-several-seconds-when-painting-speedtrees-in-a-new-project)

* * *

5.5.0f1 Release Notes (Full)
----------------------------

### Features

*   Animation: Animation Window Box tool
*   Editor: Mem Record: Native memory performance profiling for CPU Profiler Timeline. Shows callstacks of native memory allocations.
*   Editor: New High Detail view in the CPU Profiler Timeline. Shows all profiler samples without filtering.
*   Editor: New selection highlighting in scene view. Instead of showing a wireframe a selection outline is now shown. This outline color can be configured in the preferences of Unity. In the gizmo / annotation window you can select if you would like this behavour, the old behaviour, or both.
*   Editor: Option to run Cache Server locally for quick platform switching
*   Graphics: Linear color space is supported on Android with OpenGL ES 3.x and iOS with Metal.
*   Graphics: New (Preview) LookDev editor window for viewing & validating meshes and materials in various lighting environments.
*   Graphics: Unity splash screen tools.
*   Particles: New Modules:
    *   Lights Module, for adding realtime lights to particles
    *   Noise Module, for adding Curl Noise to Particle Movement
    *   Trails Module, for rendering ribbonized trails behind particles
*   Physics: New CapsuleCollider2D
*   Platform: HoloLens support from the Technical Preview has now landed in mainline Unity. Several improvements will be forthcoming during the beta period.
*   Scripting: Built-in support for opening scripts in Visual Studio Code as an external script editor on OSX and Windows. Unity will now detect when Visual Studio Code is selected an external script editor and pass the correct arguments to it when opening scripts from Unity and setup a default .vscode/settings.json with file excludes, if it does not already exist.
*   Shaders: Per-rendertarget blend modes. New shader syntax: "Blend N Src Dst", "BlendOp N Op", "ColorMask Mask N", where N is the render target index (0..7). This feature works on DX11/12, GLCore, Metal, PS4.
*   VR: Holographic Emulation

### Backwards Compatibility Breaking Changes

*   Core: Using Object.Instantiate(Object, Transform) will now use the Object position as the local position by default. This is a change from the 5.4 behaviour, which used the Object position as world.
*   DX9: DX9 half-pixel offset adjustments are now done at Shader compilation time. This means that Shaders no longer need to do any UNITY\_HALF\_TEXEL\_OFFSET checks, and any possible C# code for coordinate adjustment no longer needs to happen on DX9. However, vertex Shader constant register #255 (c255) is now reserved by Unity, and all vertex Shaders get two instructions automatically added to do the adjustment.
*   Editor: Time.deltaTime now updates in the Editor for any script marked with \[ExecuteInEditMode\], or any MonoBehaviour that has runInEditMode set to true.
*   JSONUtility: EditorJsonUtility now serializes object references by assetGUID/fileID rather than InstanceID, making the serialized data stable across Editor sessions.
*   OpenGL: Legacy desktop OpenGL2 support has been removed. It had already been removed as the default option in Unity in 5.3, and deprecated in Unity 5.4. This only affects Mac & Linux.
*   WebGL: WebGL no longer supports loading LZMA compressed AssetBundles, which is very inefficient. Its use was alway discouraged, and now it has been disabled.

### Changes

*   BuildPlayer: Building a player will now fail if the project does not build in the Editor.
*   Core: Changed the "obsolete" warning message of Undo.RegisterUndo so that it now suggests the correct replacement.
*   Editor: Added support for resizing the height of the Preferences window.
*   Editor: Enabled redo for selection changes.
*   Editor: Reflection Probe: "Probe Origin" has been renamed to "Box Offset", and "Size" to "Box Size" in the Inspector UI.
*   Editor: Removed fading/lerping behaviour when dragging/docking views, for a cleaner and less visually confusing UI.
*   Editor: You can no longer build in linear color space on platforms that don't support it.
*   GI: Deprecated the directional specular lightmap mode in Unity 5.5, since it will disappear in Unity 5.6 (as part of the lighting modes functionality).
*   Graphics: A fatal error now occurs if the Unity player is forced to run with a Renderer that it wasn't built for in the Editor.
*   Graphics: Removed logic that used guesswork to downscale shadow resolution based on how much free VRAM was available at the time.
*   Graphics: Rendering Path settings have been moved from **Project Settings** > **Player** to **Project Settings** > **Graphics**.
*   Graphics: The default uncompressed texture format is now RGBA32 on all platforms, and the default format for new Texture2D script API. Previously, ARGB32 was the default on some platforms, but RGBA32 is better because it needs less color channel re-ordering at Texture upload time.
*   Graphics: Updated shader macros to support Level of Detail (LOD) and sampler variations for Texture cubes and arrays.
*   Graphics: Warnings are now shown when a Renderer that statically batched is going to be rendered instanced.
*   HoloLens: HoloLens low latency API has been re-instated.
*   Physics: Exposed Physics.queriesHitBackfaces. This is disabled by default, so all physics queries do NOT detect hits with backface triangles. Previously, some queries would detect and some wouldn't, which was inconsistent.
*   Physics: The breakForce reported by the OnJointBreak callback is now the original breakForce, regardless of whether the Joint was disabled and re-enabled during the callback cycle.
*   Physics: The Physics system now rejects Meshes containing non-finite vertices.
*   Platform Profiler: User profile markers in scripts now show in platform profilers even when the Unity profiler is not running.
*   Samsung TV: Support for 2013 and 2014 Samsung TVs has been dropped. Deploying to these two years of TV no longer works.
*   Shadows: Unity no longer reduces shadowMap size automatically from VRAM.
*   tvOS: Added support for top shelf wide image.
*   VR: Oculus Touch Controllers and Oculus Remote now present themselves as standard joysticks.
*   VR: OpenVR controllers now present themselves as standard joysticks.
*   WebGL: asm.js code is now written in a separate file for normal JS, which allows for better memory optimizations in Firefox.

### Improvements

*   Android: Added "Mute Other Audio Sources" option to Android player settings in the editor (shared with iOS).
*   Android: Enabled TLSv1.1 and TLSv1.2 for JellyBean and KitKat devices.
*   Android: Enhanced big.LITTLE core detection. This fixes core detection on Parker.
*   Android: IL2CPP: Stripping of symbols and debug info is now enabled by default. Development builds still have symbols, which makes for a slightly larger binary.
*   Android: IL2CPP: The full debug version of IL2CPP libraries are now stored in Temp/StagingArea/Il2Cpp/Native.
*   Android: Symbols for release libraries are now available in PlaybackEngines/AndroidPlayer/Variantions/\*/Release/Symbols.
*   Animation: Added a new default ClipAnimationMaskType "None" to the Animation Importer. Use this value when you do not need a mask.
*   Animation: Implemented Reset for BlendTrees.
*   Animation: Import avatar improvements: A warning is now generated when importing avatar configurations with hierarchies that do not match properly. These configurations continue to work, but do need to be updated with a proper avatar configuration. This update also includes improvements to the default auto-mapping.
*   Animation: In the Clip Importer, AvatarMask is now set to "None" by default when importing new FBX files.
*   Build Pipeline: Optimized the build pipeline so that AssetBundles which contain Scene files don't need to recompile the scripts every time. This results in a much quicker build process.
*   Cache Server: Upgraded the node.js version used by the Cache Server to version 0.12.7.
*   Collaboration: Bug fixes, UI improvements.
*   DX9: Fixed various half-pixel offset issues when using Direct3D 9. Rendering now exactly matches other platforms (such as DX11, OpenGL).
*   Editor: Added 'Discard changes' in Scene context menu in the Hierarchy. This reloads selected modified Scenes from disk.
*   Editor: Added undo support for Sorting Layers.
*   Editor: Added Unity version to the main Unity Editor window title bar, making it easy to see which Unity version you currently have open.
*   Editor: Area lights now indicate their effective range in the Inspector.
*   Editor: EditorGUIUtility.ObjectContent now adds type information to the text string as shown for ObjectFields. For example: "Concrete (Texture2D)" instead of "Concrete".
*   Editor: In SceneView, the wireframe is now hidden on objects with the hideInHierarchy flag. Previously it would still be visible when the object's parent was selected.
*   Editor: It is now possible to dock views to the tops of windows and other views. Previously only left, right and bottom were possible.
*   Editor: The Game view now has the option to emulate low resolution for aspect ratios when on a retina monitor, using a checkbox at the top of the Aspect Ratio/Resolution menu. This update applied to macOS-only, because retina support is currently macOS-only.
*   Editor: Unity now treats quotes in the .exe path in the same way the Windows command line does.
*   Editor: Windows Editor now remembers the directory where a project was last created, and defaults to that location rather than the directory of the last opened project.
*   Game Performance: Added option to prevent exceptions that occur in Play mode (in the Editor) from being reported to the Game Performance service.
*   GI: Improved the additive loading error thrown when scenes have different lightmapping modes (made it more user friendly).
*   GI: MaterialPropertyBlocks are now applied for Realtime GI Meta pass rendering.
*   Graphics: Added Graphics.DrawMeshInstanced and CommandBuffer.DrawMeshInstanced API, allowing instanced draws without the overhead of creating thousands of renderers.
*   Graphics: Added RenderTexture.GenerateMips script API for manual control over mipmap generation. Renamed existing RenderTexture.generateMips property to autoGenerateMips.
*   Graphics: Added support for BC4/BC5 texture formats on PC and consoles. The new formats are available in Texture Import format override options (they are not used by default), or when creating Textures from scripts.
*   Graphics: Added support for cubemap arrays (CubemapArray C# class). Similar to Texture2DArray, this is a graphics feature that lets the GPU access a bunch of same size/format cubemaps as a unit, index into them when sampling, and other related tasks. Cubemap arrays are a desktop and console class feature, supported on DX10.1+/GL4.0+ on PC, and on PS4/XB1.
*   Graphics: Added support for importing Textures as RGBAHalf (16 bits float per component)
    *   Added 'HDR' Texture format for automatic HDR format choice (RGBAHalf for Desktop/PS4/XBoxOne, and the usual RGBM, dLDR depending on the platform)
    *   Reflection Probes now default to this new HDR format
*   Graphics: Added Texture conversion to RenderTargetIdentifier, so that SetGlobalTexture now accepts Textures.
*   Graphics: Added the ability to batch Renderers of different LOD fade values together by using the "lodfade" option in the instancing\_options directive.
*   Graphics: Command buffers attached to Lights are now visualised in the Inspector, and buttons have been added for removing each/all of them.
*   Graphics: GPU Instancing: Added support for Android with OpenGL ES 3.0 or newer. Note however that GPU instancing support is disabled for Android devices that have the Adreno GPU with only OpenGL ES 3.0, because of driver issues.
*   Graphics: GPU Instancing: Added support for Metal.
*   Graphics: GPU Instancing: For statically batched Mesh Renderers, using instanced Shader no longer breaks static batching. If you want Renderers to be instancing-batched, consider disabling the static batching flag.
*   Graphics: GPU Instancing: Implemented SpeedTree instancing. Light Probes are still not allowed.
*   Graphics: GPU Instancing: It is no longer an error to use instanced Shaders on renderers that don't support instancing (such as SkinnedMeshRenderer and SpriteRenderer).
*   Graphics: Improve shadows precision for large game worlds. Use reverse-float depth buffer for improved depth buffer precision on modern GPUs. Particularly improves directional light shadowing for large view distances.​
*   Graphics: Improved in-editor graphics emulation:
    *   Metal setting added, used by default on iOS/tvOS (instead of previous GLES2.0 setting).
    *   OpenGL ES 3.0 setting added, used by default on Android (instead of previous GLES2.0 setting).
    *   WebGL 1 and WebGL 2 settings added; WebGL1 used by default on WebGL (instead of previous GLES2.0 setting).
    *   Shader Model 4 setting added, available on Standalone/Windows Store.
*   Graphics: Improved Line/Trail Renderer rendering.
*   Graphics: Improved LODGroup component UI:
    *   The sliding Camera icon is now aware of the global LOD bias value, and works accordingly.
    *   The "Recalculate Bounds" button is now only enabled when clicking it will result in a change.
*   Graphics: Metal (iOS/macOS) can now render into slices of 3D and 2DArray Textures.
*   Graphics: Metal: Switched the shader backend to HLSLcc.
*   Graphics: Multi-Scene occlusion culling now works correctly. Culling data has been extracted to a separate Asset, and can be baked/reloaded with multi-Scene setups. Note that the data is stored relative to the active Scene, and is loaded correctly when loading any Scene or group of Scenes that reference it.
*   Graphics: Shader.globalMaximumLOD is now restored after exiting Play Mode.
*   Graphics: Static batch rendering is now faster, and uses fewer draw calls.
*   Graphics: Textures can now be imported to two new formats:
    *   BC6H for high quality compressed RGB HDR textures
    *   BC7 for high quality compressed RGB(A) textures Those formats are currently only available on desktop (DX11+, GLCore), PS4 and Xbox One platforms.
    *   On those platforms, HDR Textures now default to FP16 for uncompressed Textures, and BC6H for compressed Textures.
    *   Reflection Probes now default to FP16 for uncompressed Textures, and BC6H for compressed Textures.
    *   BC7 is chosen automatically by the Texture Importer for Texture setup as "High Quality Compressed" on supported platforms (see Texture Importer documentation).
    *   Note: DX9 and MacGL do not support those formats. If a Texture is set as BC6H, it is automatically uncompressed to FP16. If a Texture is set as BC7, it is automatically uncompressed to RGBA8.
*   HoloLens: Optimized the built-in spatial mapping occlusion Shader, providing higher frame rates.
*   HoloLens: The tracking loss screen now renders at ~60 FPS (previously ~40 FPS).
*   HoloLens: The Visual Tracking Loss Screen is now always be displayed when visual tracking has been lost.
*   IL2CPP: Reduce the binary size and build time for projects which make use of many C# attributes.
*   IMGUI: The Event.Use() function logs a warning if the event type is Repaint or Layout.
*   iOS: Added a way for the user to retrieve Game Center authentication error strings.
*   iOS: Added an option for users to disable the filtering of emojis in the iOS keyboard via the trampoline code.
*   iOS/tvOS: Relative symlinks are now used for plug-ins when building to a related folder. Previously, only absolute symlinks were used.
*   iOS/tvOS: Significantly reduced the size of shipped static libraries.
*   JSONUtility: EditorJsonUtility now allows any object type to be passed in for serialization, not just UnityEngine.Object types. This means vanilla C# types can take advantage of the object reference serialization behaviour.
*   JsonUtility: JsonUtility.ToJson is now faster and uses less temporary memory.
*   Lines: Added a Texture Mode to the Line/Trail renderers, to control whether the Texture repeats or stretches.
*   Occlusion Culling: Unity now supports multi-Scene occlusion culling. Scenes built concurrently will be computed as expected.
*   OSX/iOS Metal: Added -force-metal switch to force Metal rendering on OSX/iOS.
*   Particles: Added "Show Bounds" to Particle System UI. This shows the world and local AABB for the system.
*   Particles: Added a new Render mode to make particle billboards face the eye position. This is good for VR rendering.
*   Particles: Added a new Shape Module option to rotate particles to face their initial direction of travel.
*   Particles: Added support for sending custom data to Particle System vertex Shaders.
*   Particles: Gradients now support a fixed color mode, where no blending is performed. This is useful when users want to define a simple list of possible colors to be chosen from.
*   Particles: Gravity Modifier can now be a curve over time.
*   Particles: Improved the Particle System curve editor so that it now supports wrap modes, and improved selection and editing of keys.
*   Physics: Added more performance metrics to the Physics profiler.
*   Physics: All Effector inspector editors now use animated roll-outs to group properties.
*   Physics: Physics engine updated from PhysX 3.3.1 to PhysX 3.3.3
*   Physics: Physics2D settings now have the option to show Collider2D AABB in the Gizmo roll-out.
*   Physics: Rigidbody2D and Collider2D Inpsector editors now have an "Info" roll-out showing useful information.
*   Physics: Rigidbody2D now accepts a PhysicsMaterial2D, which is then used for all attached Collider2Ds that don't specify their own.
*   Player: AssetBundles now work with engine code stripping. A custom player build can understand which AssetBundles will be loaded by the player at run time, and determine which parts of the engine code those AssetBundles need to preserve. See BuildPipeline.BuildPlayer method change for more information.
*   Plugins: You can exclude specific platforms when "Any Platform" is selected. This allows you to set plug-in compatibilities on any platform except your selected specific platform. Added additional API to PluginImporter.
*   SamsungTV: Added support for deploying to multiple Samsung TVs at once. Separate TV IPs with a forward slash to do this.
*   Scripting: Improved the performance of System.IO.StringReader.ReadLine.
*   Scripting: On macOS X, the Unity Editor no longer starts BugReporter with mono NULL exception if -batchmode.
*   Scripting: Upgraded C# compiler to Mono 4.4. The new compiler still targets C# 4 and .Net 3.5, but provides better performance and many bug fixes.
*   Serialization: Added new scripting class attribute 'PreferBinarySerialization' which allows developers to hint Unity that a ScriptableObject derived type prefers to use binary serialization regardless of project's asset serialization mode.
*   Serialization: The serialization depth limit warning now prints the serialization hierarchy that triggered the warning.
*   Shaders: Added a Render Queue setting to the Material UI. Previously this was a script-only setting on the Material.
*   Shaders: Improved exception messages when passing invalid arguments to the ComputeShader constructor.
*   Shaders: Improved memory usage for large Shaders compiled for multiple APIs. Only the active API's data will be decompressed in the player.
*   Shaders: Improved usability of "Show compiled code" for Shaders. Now compiled Shader variants are grouped together in a more useful way.
*   Shaders: Increased the number of allowed shader keywords to 256 (up from 128). Optimized related parts of the code, so it's often actually faster now.
*   Shaders: Renamed variables and cleaned code in UnityStandardBRDF.cginc.
*   Shaders: Shaders are now exported to the Unity player completely in binary. There is no Shader text string and parsing in run time.
*   Shaders: When Shader compilation fails and the reason is unknown, the error output from the platform Shader compiler is now shown in the error message.
*   Terrain: Terrain LOD pre-computation is optimized and now runs faster (specifically, TerrainData.SetHeights and setting the size property are faster now).
*   Unity Ads: Updated Unity Ads to 2.0.4.
*   Unity Ads: Updated Unity Ads to v2.0.5. Fixed crashes related to calling user-defined callbacks from outside the main Unity thread.
*   Version Control: Major improvements to memory and CPU usage.
*   Visual Studio: Added cancel button to "Opening Visual Studio" progress dialog.
*   VisualStudio: COM is no longer used to launch VisualStudio. This results in a faster VisualStudio startup time.
*   VR: GUI elements now work with single-pass stereo rendering
*   VR: UnityEngine.VR.InputTracking.GetLocalRotation() and UnityEngine.VR.InputTracking.GetLocalPosition() can now be used to query the position and orientation of Oculus Touch and HTC Vive controllers.
*   VR: Updated the native plug-in support for VR devices. Plug-ins in user projects override native VR plugins when used.
*   Web: The Accept-Encoding header can now be set via scripting. Note that this is advanced programming and is done at your own risk.
*   WebGL: Aded the option to use Brotli compression instead of Gzip.
*   WebGL: Rebuilds which don't change code now cache the complete JS build, resulting in much faster iteration times.
*   WebGL: Reduced the size of release builds by stripping away duplicate functions.
*   WebGL: WebGL 2.0 is now enabled by default for new projects.
*   Windows Standalone: Added the "Copy PDB files" option to the Build Settings window. This controls the copying of PDB files when building to Windows Standalone.
*   Windows Standalone: Windows Standalone applications can now correctly run in low integrity mode. (https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb625960.aspx)
*   Windows Store: Added a "Copy References" option in the Build Settings window. This allows for generated solutions to reference Unity files from the Unity installation folder, instead of copying them to an exported folder. This can save up to 10 GB of disk space. Note that you can't copy the exported folder to another PC, because there is a dependency on Unity's installation folder.
*   Windows Store: Added new option for input handling in XAML-based applications: pointer input can now be recieved from SwapChainPanel. This is an alternative to independent input sources.
*   Windows Store: Added partial hardware cursor support. The default cursor set in PlayerSettings acts as a hardware cursor. Cursors set at runtime still act as software cursors. See Cursor documentation for more information.
*   Windows Store: Added the concept of "target device type", which allows you to target only one family of devices (such as PC, mobile or HoloLens). This enables better resource optimization for a particular device type. See documentation on EditorUserBuildSettings.wsaSubtarget for more information.
*   Windows Store: Assembly C# projects are now generated next to the main solution in the GeneratedProjects folder.
*   Windows Store: Expanded UnityEngine.WSA.Cursor.SetCustomCursor. If you pass 0 to this function, it will restore the cursor to arrow icon.
*   Windows Store: New implementation for TouchScreenKeyboard on UWP. XAML and D3D apps are now supported, as well as IME input. To turn on older implementation, pass the command line argument -forceTextBoxBasedKeyboard.
*   Windows Store: Windows Store platform no longer appears in the Build Settings window if the Editor is not running on Windows.

### API Changes

*   AI: NavMesh related types are moved from namespaces UnityEngine and UnityEditor to UnityEngine.AI and UnityEditor.AI
*   Application: Add Application.Unload to unload Unity from memory without exiting the application.
*   Asset Bundles: Added an Offset argument to the AssetBundle.CreateFromFile and AssetBundle.LoadFromFile methods. (764802)
*   Asset Bundles: New argument to the BuildPipeline.BuildPlayer method to support Asset Bundle engine code stripping
*   Asset Management: EditorApplication.SaveAssets has been deprecated; use AssetDatabase.SaveAssets instead. The ScriptUpgrader should fix existing code automatically.
*   Asset Pipeline: Added callback events for PackageImport for start, success, failure and cancellation.
*   Editor: Add MonoBehaviour.runInEditMode to set a specific instance to run in edit mode.
*   Editor: Added Handles.DrawWireCube to draw cubes in the same way as Gizmos.DrawWireCube
*   Editor: Added toggle for preventing/allowing cross scene references from the Editor UI (see EditorSceneManger.preventCrossSceneReferences)
*   Graphics: Added array property getters (e.g. GetFloatArray) for Material, MaterialPropertyBlock and Shader class.
*   Graphics: Added bool SystemInfo.usesReversedZBuffer to be able to know if the Z is currently reversed.
*   Graphics: Added CommandBuffer.SetGlobalBuffer
*   Graphics: Added Light.customShadowResolution and QualitySetting.shadowResolution to scripting API to make it possible to adjust the shadow mapping quality in code at run time on a per-light basis. (805056)
*   Graphics: Added List overloads for array property setters for Material, MaterialPropertyBlock, Shader and CommandBuffer class.
*   Graphics: Added List overloads for Graphics.DrawMeshInstanced.
*   Graphics: Added property getters (e.g. GetGlobalFloat) for Shader class.
*   Graphics: Added QualitySettings.shadows and QualitySettings.softParticles to the scripting API (805056)
*   Graphics: Enable 'BuiltinRenderTextureType.ResolvedDepth' enum so command buffers can use it.
*   Graphics: Native code plugins can access underlying graphics API Mesh & ComputeBuffer data. New script APIs for that: Mesh.GetNativeIndexBufferPtr, Mesh.GetNativeVertexBufferPtr, ComputeBuffer.GetNativeBufferPtr.
*   Graphics: Now BillboardAsset can be constructed from script. Added detailed how-to documents.
*   Graphics: SystemInfo.supportsRenderTextures and SystemInfo.supportsStencil always return true now (all platforms have them).
*   HoloLens: PhotoCapture: removed the preview mode parameter from PhotoCapture::StartPhotoModeAsync.
*   HoloLens: Spatial mapping component API changes:
    1.  The "Custom Render Setting" property is now "Render State".
    2.  The "Custom Material" render setting is now "Visualization".
    3.  "Custom Material" is now "Visual Material".
    4.  "volume" property is now "volumeType".
    5.  "sphereRadiusMeters" is now "sphereRadius".
    6.  "boxExtentsMeters" is now "halfBoxExtents".
    7.  "lod" is now "lodType".
*   JSONUtility: EditorJsonUtility methods now accept any object type, not only UnityEngine.Object subclasses
*   Particles: Added IsEmitting property.
*   Particles: Exposed the Maximum Particle Timestep (maximumParticleDeltaTime) to the public API.
*   Particles: Fully exposed main particle properties to script
*   Particles: Particles Stop function now takes an enum to stop emitting or stop emitting and clear.
*   Physics: PlatformEffector2D now has a 'rotationalOffset' property to adjust the local 'up' (surface) vector.
*   Physics: Rigidbody2D component now has a 'bodyType' property that allows selection of Dynamic, Kinematic or Static bodies.
*   Physics: The following properties have been renamed:
    *   Physics.solverIterationCount to Physics.defaultSolverIterations
    *   Physics.solverVelocityIterationCount to Physics.defaultSolverVelocityIterations
    *   Rigidbody.solverIterationCount to Rigidbody.solverIterations
    *   Rigidbody.solverVelocityIterationCount to Rigidbody.solverVelocityIterations
*   Physics2D: Physics2D.CapsuleCast and Physics2D.OverlapCapsule API.
*   Profiler: Profiler class moved from UnityEngine namespace to UnityEngine.Profiling
*   Scene: Added SceneUtility class with scene path to build index conversion methods and added SceneManager.GetSceneByBuildIndex.
*   SceneManager: Added UnloadSceneAsync API which can be called anytime unlike UnloadScene.
*   SceneManager: UnloadScene has now be marked deprecated and will throw an exception if called at illegal times. UnloadSceneAsync should be used instead (762371)
*   Scripting: Add disposable scope helper for Begin/EndChangeCheck
*   Scripting: Add missing generic overloads for Object.Instantiate
*   Scripting: Introduced global define UNITY\_5\_5\_OR\_NEWER, which can be used for conditionally compile code that is compatible only with Unity 5.5 or newer
*   Shadows: Exposed LightShadowResolution enum to scripts. (575369)
*   Substance: A FreezeAndReleaseSourceData() method was added to the ProceduralMaterial class. This renders the ProceduralMaterial immutable and releases some of the underlying data to decrease the memory footprint. To release even more of the underlying data, it is necessary to call Resources.UnloadUnusedAssets() afterwards. Once frozen, the ProceduralMaterial cannot be cloned, its ProceduralTextures cannot be rebuilt, nor its inputs be set.
*   Terrain: Added Terrain.SetSplatMaterialPropertyBlock and Terrain.GetSplatMaterialPropertyBlock API that allows per-terrain shader properties to be used for rendering the terrain.
*   Terrain: Added Terrain.treeLODBiasMultiplier for adjusting LOD bias for SpeedTree trees.
*   Terrain: Added TerrainChangedFlags for use with the OnTerrainChanged message.
*   Terrain: Added TerrainData.bounds for retrieving the local bounding box of terrain heightmap data.
*   Texture Importer: Added GetAutomaticFormat API method to Texture Importer.
*   Tizen: Add UnityEngine.Tizen.Window.evasGL to retrieve a pointer to the native Evas\_GL object used by Unity to render.
*   UI: Added rootCanvas property to Canvas. (782957)

### Fixes

*   2D: Fix crash when user attempts to SetPixel and Apply onto a Texture2D with an invalid width or height (0) [(789600)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture2d-dot-setpixels-crashes-unity-if-textures-height-is-set-to-0)
*   2D: Fix Dragging a cubemap onto a scene doesn't generate skybox material, duplicates file twice instead [(742896)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-a-cubemap-onto-a-scene-doesnt-generate-skybox-material-duplicates-file-twice-instead)
*   2D: Fix potential hang when rendering Sprites with large number of vertices
*   2D: Fix SpriteEditorWindow not showing selected texture after exiting playmode [(782177)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spriteeditor-contents-will-disappear-upon-exiting-palymode)
*   2D: Fix SpriteEditorWindow polygon mode bugs related to the change shape popup [(782158, 782212, 782229)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spriteeditor-unable-to-change-values-under-a-sprite-window-due-to-change-shape-window-slash-dropdown)
*   AI: Fix issue where 'Not Walkable' objects close to the ground would not create a hole in the navmesh when baked. [(820608)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmesh-objects-without-double-sided-faces-are-still-wakable-if-raised-above-ground)
*   AI: Fix issue where NavMeshAgent remaining distance property would be wrong right after setting the agent destination to the same polygon. [(822015)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmeshagent-agent-gets-teleported-to-the-destination)
*   AI: Fix issue where NavMeshAgent would sometimes teleport right after NavMeshObstacle carving. [(822362)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmeshobstacle-carving-causes-navmeshagent-to-teleport)
*   Android: Abandon/Request audio focus on pause/resume [(796242)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-slash-audio-android-app-stops-playing-audio-at-all-if-another-app-takes-audio-focus)
*   Android: Android: Fix bug in Texture.GetPixels for ETC compressed textures [(759195)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getpixels-on-android-returns-incorrect-data)
*   Android: Android: Fix freeze in new splash screen when using threaded GfxDevice [(766776)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-application-freezes-on-splash-screen)
*   Android: Android: Fixed a crash related to the main context not being an Activity [(751102)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-on-instantiating-unityplayer-without-activity)
*   Android: Android: Fixed an issue where Ping wouldn't work in release mode [(734124)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ping-doesnt-work-on-android)
*   Android: Android: Fixed an issue where SystemInfo.deviceUniqueIdentifier would return an empty string on some x86 devices
*   Android: Android: LocationService - Fixed crash bug (757111)
*   Android: Android: PlayerPrefs - Fixed an issue where upgrading a lot of keys from a previous version of unity would cause an out of memory error [(764422 762733)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-unity-runs-out-of-memory-and-crashes-when-upgrading-large-playerprefs)
*   Android: Audio - Don't select OpenSL output if the native device params make no sense (fixes audio issues on chinese devices/custom ROMs/broken devices)
*   Android: Audio - Fixed audio latency in GearVR regression [(789398)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/delay-playing-audio-on-gearvr)
*   Android: Audio - Fixed OpenSL output not selected when default buffer size selected (784899)
*   Android: Buildpipe - Don't make use of preview SDK tools installed (788040)
*   Android: Buildpipe - Don't merge manifests if exporting project [(746248)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/exporting-google-android-project-runs-unnecessary-steps-dexing-etc-dot)
*   Android: Buildpipe - Fixed AAPT errors on project export (786918)
*   Android: Buildpipe - Fixed AAR plugin and resource issues on exported projects [(765396)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/exporting-google-android-project-fails-when-processing-arr-files)
*   Android: Buildpipe - Fixed OBB files not working (787999)
*   Android: Buildpipe - Remove mdb files from release build [(781657)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/built-apk-contains-unityengine-dot-dll-dot-mdb-even-though-it-is-not-development-build)
*   Android: Don't decompress RGB ETC2 textures on devices that support it when using OpenGL ES 2.0 (784866)
*   Android: Editor - Added a workaround for AAPT sometimes crashing for no good reason (797965)
*   Android: Editor - Fixed an issue where it was impossible to push to devices running Android N Preview (790236)
*   Android: Fix crash during startup on some ARM devices
*   Android: Fix EGL\_BAD\_NATIVE\_WINDOW warning [(747898)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-error-when-coming-back-from-background-egl-bad-native-window-on-some-devices)
*   Android: Fix for black screen or crash during startup on old PVR devices (Samsung Galaxy S I9000) [(762875)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/black-screen-on-some-android-devices-from-unity-5-dot-3)
*   Android: Fix for potential crash when Video can not be prepared [(788486)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-when-changing-scene-after-handheld-dot-playfullscreenmovie-was-called-app-crashes-on-htc-one-m9-plus)
*   Android: Fix for specular highlights on Mali devices caused by half-precision overflow [(761744)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-lighting-is-chopped-slash-gone-on-samsung-galaxy-s6-edge-in-forward-rendering)
*   Android: Fix high memory usage of RenderTexture.GetTemporary [(786289)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-some-mobile-when-using-argb32-temporary-render-textures-from-unity-5-dot-2-1)
*   Android: Fix incorrect width/height when changing orientation after changing antialiasing settings [(771542)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-aa-setting-and-screen-orientation-results-in-stretched-screen-on-android-devices)
*   Android: Fix Java NoSuchFieldError exception on Gingerbread device
*   Android: Fix rendering artefacts on Vivante GC1000 devices [(712890)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-flickering-issue-on-specific-vivante-devices)
*   Android: Fixed an issue where Indonesian and Hebrew weren't properly recognized by SystemInfo. [(793738)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hebrew-is-not-recognized-on-android-by-application-dot-systemlanguage)
*   Android: Fixed an issue where RenderTexture content would be lost on pause/resume [(749983)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-render-to-texture-is-black-when-coming-back-from-background-on-android)
*   Android: Handle '#' in project paths [(743640)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-apk-building-process-fails-when-project-has-plugins-and-path-has-special-characters)
*   Android: JNI - Throw correct exception when method not found by reflection [(782985)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/andorid-slash-plugins-java-dot-lang-dot-nosuchmethoderror-when-invoking-public-static-method-with-androidjavaobject)
*   Android: Removed permissions added by checking "Split Application Binary"
*   Android: Show name of missing library on export failure
*   Android: Unaligned batch rendering (re)fix [(768974)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-simple-scene-crashes-on-mipad)
*   Android: Vibrate() is now asynchronous [(777556)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/handheld-dot-vibrate-takes-15-20-ms-to-complete-on-android-device)
*   Android: [(746248)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/exporting-google-android-project-runs-unnecessary-steps-dexing-etc-dot)
*   Android: Buildpipe: Fix to no longer put mdpi app icon into the default drawable/ location. [(764641)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-drawable-mdpi-icon-doesnt-appear-in-apk)
*   Android: Buildpipe: Fixed case of streaming assets folders starting with '\_' being ignored. [(819800)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-folders-under-streamingassets-that-start-with-the-underscore-character-are-not-copied-on-android-builds)
*   Android: Change to lower the background audio volume by default (instead of muting it), when running a game on the device. [(807983)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apps-without-audio-stop-the-external-audio-sources-on-android)
*   Android: Fixed a crash when quitting an application on older Android devices (835383)
*   Android: Fixed case of audio stutter when launching Android player from a notification on the lockscreen. (818174)
*   Android: Fixed deployment to devices with unknown OpenGL ES target
*   Android: Fixed immersive mode switching off on some KitKat devices when pressing volume buttons [(779338)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navigation-buttons-stay-visible-after-volume-button-was-pressed-on-specific-android-devices)
*   Android: Fixed input issues after tapping the splash screen. [(825716)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-tapping-on-the-splashscreeen-disables-touchphase-dot-began-and-touchphase-dot-end)
*   Android: Fixed potential crash when using WWW without having Internet permission (also affects use of Unity Analytics) [(779877)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/empty-app-crashes-on-android-devices-when-built-on-mac-in-non-dev-mode-from-unity-5-dot-4)
*   Android: Fixed sound issues with Bluetooth audio devices and when casting [(758142)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-bluetooth-sound-stuttering-on-devices-using-opensl)
*   Android: Fixed startup crash on Adreno when protected graphics memory is used. [(832025)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-some-os-version-7-dot-0-devices-with-protect-graphics-memory-enabled-crash-on-startup)
*   Android: Fixes an issue where UI touch input would be ignored [(776437)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-needs-two-touches-to-work-on-some-android-on-second-run)
*   Android: IL2CPP: Fixed missing config files for il2cpp build. [(821806)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webrequest-dot-create-fails-for-http-on-android-il2cpp-plus-net-2-dot-0-full)
*   Android: Sensors: Fixed case of location isEnabledByUser returning true when the service is disabled. [(821688)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-input-dot-location-dot-isenabledbyuser-returning-wrong-value-when-location-service-turned-off-on-the-device)
*   Android: UnityWebRequest: Fixed crash when using GetAudioClip() with the file protocol. [(818992)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-crashes-when-unitywebrequest-dot-getaudioclip-is-being-used)
*   Android: Workaround ES3 shader compiler bugs on Adreno 3xx devices [(777617)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-shader-issue-on-htc-one-m8s-adreno-405-gles-3-dot-0)
*   Android: WWW - Fixed application freeze on WWW.Dispose when the connection is cancelled. [(777663)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-application-freezes-on-www-dot-dispose-if-connection-is-canceled)
*   Android/IL2CPP: Android: IL2CPP - Fixed build errors on NDK paths with whitespaces [(763447)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-spaces-in-ndk-path-result-in-compile-failure-no-proper-error)
*   Android/IL2CPP: Android: IL2CPP - Fixed crash on second startup after installation (766698)
*   Animation: Added more feedback to the AvatarMaskInspector for cases where the transform mask is empty [(805945)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-fix-mask-appears-after-importing-motion-file)
*   Animation: Added non-alloc version of Animator::GetCurrent/NextAnimatorClipInfo.
*   Animation: Added visual feedback to Transform animation curves when part of a positon/rotation/scale is not explicitly animated. [(778046)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/removing-animation-key-resets-property-to-0)
*   Animation: Added warning icon in animator controller to inform user that a base layer with humanoid motion should preferably not have an avatar mask. (823794)
*   Animation: Animator.CrossFade is now interruptable like Animator.CrossFadeInFixedTime [(798560)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-dot-crossfade-doesnt-allow-interruptions)
*   Animation: Fix crash when changing AnimationControllerPlayable during runtime with Constant animation curves. (805887)
*   Animation: Fix first frame event firing twice when controller is setup and instantaneous transition is trigger at the same time [(800268)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-event-fires-twice-when-controller-is-set-by-script)
*   Animation: Fixed a bug where deactivating a GameObject with an attached Animator could cause a crash. [(822232)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deactivated-gameobject-with-animator-occurs-crash)
*   Animation: Fixed a case where StateMachineBehaviours on preview assets would be run [(804909)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/statemachinebehaviour-gets-instantiated-from-a-selected-prefab-in-project-view-which-does-not-exist-in-the-hierarchy)
*   Animation: Fixed a crash in the Animation component when playing clips with invalid or unbound curves. [(820586)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adding-animationclip-to-enabled-animation-component-in-play-mode-crashes-unity-editor-on-animationcurvetpl-evaluatecl)
*   Animation: Fixed a crash that would be triggered during clip import, when passing invalid class IDs to IsDerivedFromClassID. [(818668)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-at-object-isderivedfromclassid-when-importing-specific-animation-clip)
*   Animation: Fixed a crash when building a clip with an invalid curve. [(818668)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-at-object-isderivedfromclassid-when-importing-specific-animation-clip)
*   Animation: Fixed a crash when deleting a layer with an index smaller than the layer on which other layers are synchronized. [(820546)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deleting-an-animation-layer-and-entering-play-mode-causes-crash-on-memoryprofiler-unregisterallocation)
*   Animation: Fixed a crash when playing and reconnecting playables on the first frame. [(820203)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-animation-createanimatorgenericbindings-when-attempting-to-use-animationmixerplayable-on-start-of-a-game-object)
*   Animation: Fixed a crash when setting a null AnimatorController on an Animator. [(821384)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-setting-animator-dot-runtimeanimatorcontroller)
*   Animation: Fixed a crash while building SelectorTransitionConstant. [(825310)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/building-project-crashes-at-streamedbinarywrite-transferstlstylearray-offsetptrarraytransfer-offsetptr-mecanim-statemachine)
*   Animation: Fixed an error in the AvatarMask Inspector [(813105)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-skeleton-under-avatar-mask-causes-error)
*   Animation: Fixed an error with invalid default keys for euler rotations
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where an invalidly configured Humanoid rig with Optimize Game Objects would cause the configure button to disappear. [(827514)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/avatar-configure-button-disapears-with-ogo)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where Animator.SetTrigger was not forwarded to all AnimatorControllers in a playable graph. (823880)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where deleting an Override controller that was previously set as the runtime controller was resetting the animator stateMachine.
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where events could be fired more than once when the framerate was exceedingly low. [(825132)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-event-is-triggered-multiple-times-at-low-frame-rate)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where Legacy animations could not be previewed. [(845815)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/legacy-animations-do-not-animate-in-the-inspectors-preview-window)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where objects that should have been culled were still animated. [(816950)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animators-are-still-working-beyond-the-screen-while-culling-mode-is-set-to-cull-completely)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue whereby empty clips would be rebuilt repeatedly. (791563)
*   Animation: Fixed animation clip invalidated when adding an animation event [(789586)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-resets-when-animation-events-are-added-through-clip-dot-addevent)
*   Animation: Fixed animation window breaking because of unhandled AmbiguousMatchException in animation events [(801649)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selecting-animation-event-breaks-animation-window)
*   Animation: Fixed animation window breaking when resizing to small sizes. [(802394)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rescaling-animation-window-to-small-size-hides-all-of-the-keyframes)
*   Animation: Fixed animation window lock preventing from changing selection if current selection becomes invalid [(804295)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-get-locked-out-of-the-animation-window)
*   Animation: Fixed animation window losing animation clip selection. (804523)
*   Animation: Fixed ArgumentNullException sent when deleting property in Animation Window. [(802229)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/triggering-argumentnullexception-when-deleting-property-in-the-animation-window)
*   Animation: Fixed case of 1st Importer AnimationEvent not dirtying the importer. [(824180)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-importer-animation-events-do-not-activate-apply-on-new-fbx-files-first-time-only)
*   Animation: Fixed case of an invalid Playable leak message being displayed. (826047)
*   Animation: Fixed case of duplicate euler angle properties on the animation window. [(820494)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selecting-all-frames-in-an-animation-and-deleting-them-does-not-delete-all-of-the-frames)
*   Animation: Fixed case of error message showing in the console when trying to create a new key on a read-only curve. (818180)
*   Animation: Fixed case of leaking animation clips in Animation Component. [(826304)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-the-clip-that-is-created-when-calling-addclip-is-not-cleaned-up-even-after-the-gameobject-slash-animator-is-destroyed)
*   Animation: Fixed case of move over key in the dopesheet editor not overriding the previous value. [(827232)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-dopesheet-drag-key-over-other-key-does-not-override-value)
*   Animation: Fixed case of nested property game object name not showing in the animation window when selecting from the project folder. [(823679)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-animation-clip-selection-with-no-game-object-does-not-show-nested-property-paths)
*   Animation: Fixed case of vertical scrollbar jamming in the animation window. [(830247)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vertical-scrollbar-jamming-in-the-animation-window)
*   Animation: Fixed crash when calling Animator.GetCurrentAnimatorStateInfo during an interrupted transition [(802327)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-animatorcontrollerplayable-getanimatorclipinfo-when-the-clipinfo-is-0-or-in-transition)
*   Animation: Fixed crash when calling Animator.Play on a disabled GameObject during playback. [(812440)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-using-slate-from-a$-crashes-in-the-editor-in-getlayerandstateindex)
*   Animation: Fixed crash when changing AnimatorOverrideController during an interrupted transition. [(823410)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/using-animator-dot-crossfadeinfixedtime-and-animator-dot-update-methods-crashes-the-editor)
*   Animation: Fixed crash when manually destroying an AnimatorState. [(810871)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/destroyimmidiate-animatorstate-with-bool-parameter-set-to-true-crashes-on-directormanager-onshutdownbeforeobjectcleanup)
*   Animation: Fixed crash when triggering a newly created animation clip at runtime. [(824596)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standalone-webgl-after-triggering-animation-in-animation-override-controller-player-crashes)
*   Animation: Fixed crashes in AudioSource.GetCustomCurve [(773437)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-mac-editor-crashes-after-calling-audiosource-dot-getcustomcurve)
*   Animation: Fixed curve preview display on the fbx import inspector. [(818738)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/curve-preview-in-fbx-import-inspector-does-not-display-properly)
*   Animation: Fixed display of invalid AnyState transitions. [(807592)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adding-the-any-state-transition-by-script-doesnt-show-transition-inside-of-substate-machine-in-inspector)
*   Animation: Fixed erroneous "Missing" tag displayed in Animator.Motion curves for generic animation in animation window [(805254)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-animator-dot-motion-t-q-tz-missing-on-root-motion-curves)
*   Animation: Fixed first rotation key frame not properly set when recording in animation window. [(811173)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-changing-rotation-set-in-one-keyframe-affects-other-keyframe)
*   Animation: Fixed HumanPoseHandler not supporting fingers [(788540)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/humanposehandler-sethumanpose-does-not-work-on-fingers)
*   Animation: Fixed inability to input negative x values in the floating curve editor. [(817689)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationcurve-edit-key-option-clamps-time-to-0-and-as-a-result-doesnt-allow-negative-values-to-be-entered)
*   Animation: Fixed InvalidCastException when renaming an animated sprite property in the animation window. [(820726)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-invalidcastexception-on-rename-of-sprite-in-aw)
*   Animation: Fixed InvalidOperationException error message in console when double clicking to add key in floating curve editor window. (810377)
*   Animation: Fixed inverted left/right tangents set in curve editor contextual menu [(805342)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-setting-right-slash-left-tangents-sets-inverse-tangent)
*   Animation: Fixed issue whereby a keyframe would be created with negative time in the dopesheet editor when double-clicking. [(820176)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/its-possible-to-create-a-keyframe-with-a-negative-time-in-dopesheet-editor)
*   Animation: Fixed issue whereby read-only animation clip selection was modifiable in the animation window. [(828250)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-can-edit-read-only-fbx-clip-in-dopesheet)
*   Animation: Fixed key frame not saved in clip when added in curve editor with double click. [(802238)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adding-a-keyframe-with-double-click-in-curve-editor-is-not-registered)
*   Animation: Fixed layers overriding the base layer's rootmotion event when no rootmotion on layers. (785608)
*   Animation: Fixed new in-between key not set to Auto tangent mode when neighbouring keyframe are set to Auto. [(805647)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-in-between-key-type-creation-is-wrong-with-auto-key-type)
*   Animation: Fixed playable not updating when animator controller is already set in animator [(788662)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-play-a-playable-when-theres-already-an-initialized-animatorcontroller-on-the-object)
*   Animation: Fixed previewing in ModelImporterClip editor not previewing outside previous range when sliding carets [(790259)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clip-end-time-edit-does-not-preview-after-current-end-time)
*   Animation: Fixed problem that occurred when blending between two additive clips when some properties are animated in one of the clips but not the other. [(828199)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crossfading-additive-animations-causes-undesired-scale)
*   Animation: Fixed property removal not undoing euler values (euler hints) when recording animation. [(817356)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-remove-properties-breaks-recorded-scene-value)
*   Animation: Fixed recording of RectTransform z translation [(789053)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/recttransform-z-position-of-recttransform-cant-be-animated)
*   Animation: Fixed renaming of grand children properties in animation window [(789410)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-grand-child-game-object-have-unnecessary-slash-added-to-name-on-rename)
*   Animation: Fixed slow data invalidation in the animation window. [(808124)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-window-stalls-due-to-garbage-collection-when-animation-has-a-large-number-of-keys)
*   Animation: Fixed StackOverflow exception in the transition inspector, caused by looping transitions. [(817057)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/stackoverflowexception-when-selecting-specific-transition-in-mecanim-state)
*   Animation: Fixed StateMachineBehaviour.OnEnable/OnDisable been called in editor while not in play mode
*   Animation: Fixed transitions not being previewable with objects imported with Copy Avatar From Other
*   Animation: Fixed typo in Animation component inspector [(806523)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-typo-in-animator-component)
*   Animation: Fixed vertical scrollbar in dopesheet editor out of sync with animation window hierarchy [(803345)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-add-property-scroll-bar-bug)
*   Animation: Fixed vertical scrollbar jamming in dopesheet editor [(805253)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-use-the-vertical-scrollbar-in-the-dopesheet-with-certain-clips)
*   Animation: Fixed wrap mode icon that couldn't be clicked anymore in curve editor window (814372)
*   Animation: Prevent from creating States and StateMachine with a "." in their name [(803366)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-transtions-break-the-aniamtor-controller-at-runtime)
*   Animation: Prevents Animator to disable themselves while being animated [(795444)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-animation-activates-slash-destroys-particle-emitters)
*   Animation: Re-enabled recording in editor play mode. [(835544)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-no-longer-able-to-record-in-editor-play-mode)
*   Animation: Removed erronous framing applied when changing Curve Editor property selection in Animation Window [(802226)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-property-in-the-animation-window-messes-up-framing-in-the-curve-editor)
*   Animation: Updated hash code for EditorCurveBinding to reduce likelikood of collisions. [(816028)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/key-frame-selection-selects-adjacent-objects-keys-if-the-objects-are-named-in-sequential-order)
*   APIUpdater: Fixed AssemblyUpdater crash (Sequence contains more than one matching element) when updating some specific assemblies [(760684)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scripting-exception-in-api-updater-sequence-contains-more-than-one-matching-element)
*   APIUpdater: Fixed AssemblyUpdater crash when checking assemblies due to assembly resolution failures (743463)
*   Asset Bundles: Fixed editor not taking into account #if UNITY\_EDITOR defines around fields in scripts when building asset bundles, thus causing deserialization issues in the player [(800200)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-bundle-build-pipeline-does-not-account-for-fields-ifdefd-with-number-if-unity-editor)
*   Asset Import: Fixed case of blender file import not working (this is a port of the fix for https://fogbugz.unity3d.com/f/cases/778562, present in 5.4). [(843299)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blender-2-dot-78-crashes-and-models-get-corrupted-when-saving-directly-into-project-slash-assets-folder)
*   Asset Management: Assets added using AssetDatabase.AddObjectToAsset will no longer change their name when the project is saved. [(811596)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assets-management-assets-added-using-assetdatabase-dot-addobjecttoasset-change-their-name-when-the-project-is-saved)
*   AssetBundles: BuildAssetBundles will switch back to the original Active Build Target when finished [(759142)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-settings-switch-to-web-player-after-building-assetbundle)
*   AssetBundles: Fix possible crash when decompressing corrupted lzma bundles [(782773)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-assetbundle-fails-to-decompress-data-after-downloading-from-www)
*   AssetBundles : Fixed default lzma compression for BuildPipeline.BuildStreamedSceneAssetBundle [(781866)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/compression-is-not-performed-on-assetbundles-using-buildpipeline-dot-buildstreamedsceneassetbundle)
*   AssetBundles : Fixed memory leak when using AssetBundle.LoadFromMemory [(756652)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetbundle-dot-loadfrommemory-uses-more-memory-on-device-than-assetbundle-dot-loadfromfile)
*   AssetImport: Fix a crash on fbx import in some rare circumstances. [(768846)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetimport-importing-fbx-causes-editor-to-run-out-of-memory-and-crash)
*   Audio: Fix issue where a user-generated stream could not be replayed after the AudioSource was stopped. [(819186)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audioclip-is-destroyed-after-audiosource-dot-stop-is-called)
*   Audio: Fix memory-tracking of AudioClips. Previously the memory allocated by clips loaded in the background fell under the AudioManager category instead of the specific clips. (814953)
*   Build Pipeline: The build target path is now stored as a relative instead of an absolute path. This resolves some building issues, such as path errors when building to external folders or subfolders. (818346)
*   CacheServer: Fixed error thrown in certain circumstances while creating sub-directories. (820297)
*   CacheServer: Fixed leak of file descriptor and a continual allocation issue. [(774264)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bug-in-the-cache-server)
*   Code Editors: The OnGeneratedCSProjectFiles callback will now be triggered when using Visual Studio. [(789883)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ongeneratedcsprojectfiles-isnt-triggered-if-using-visual-studio)
*   Collaboration: Fixed issue where closing the collaboration restore confirmation window by pressing 'X' would still restore it. [(830209)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/closing-collab-restore-confirmation-window-by-pressing-x-still-restores-it-to-the-selected-version)
*   Collaboration: Various bug and UI fixes.
*   Compute: Document a restriction that ComputeBuffer.CopyCount is only available to IndirectArgs or Raw typed destination buffers (783093)
*   Compute: Fixed a regression where ComputeShader.SetFloats wouldn't set all values in some constants (like arrays of matrices) (780340)
*   Core: Fixed a possible memory corruption when performing undo/redo with a malformed undo stack
*   Debugger: Fix rare crash when setting breakpoint (735335)
*   Debugger: Prevent debugger from prematurely interrupting calls to Monitor.Wait. [(772064)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/system-dot-threading-dot-monitor-dot-wait-prematurely-aborted-when-debugger-is-attached)
*   DirectX: Windowed Direct3D 11 applications will no longer run with their framerate uncapped when minimized. [(784933)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/framerate-is-not-capped-while-running-in-background)
*   Documentation: Android - Added a warning to the raw JNI interface description.
*   Editor: Add missing System.Runtime.Serialization reference to generated .csproj's (599678)
*   Editor: Add support for the GZipStream class in the editor and standalone players. (569612)
*   Editor: Don't crash when padding ASTC textures when building from command line [(759288)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-texture-import-batchmode-crash-on-texture-import)
*   Editor: Fix clicking Player Settings button in Build Settings window not giving focus to inspector (720992)
*   Editor: Fix context menu items not being executable. [(781947)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-5-dot-5-gameobject-cannot-be-aligned-with-scene-view-by-using-align-with-view-feature)
*   Editor: Fix crash that could happen when animation window is open, and playmode is entered (696623)
*   Editor: Fix crash when dragging a prefab instance from one scene to another scene (if the prefab has a game object parent) [(769764)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-dragging-a-go-from-one-scene-and-dropping-onto-another-scene-crashed-unity)
*   Editor: Fix double icon in OS X dock area when editor is relaunched to creating or opening a new project. [(769784)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-dock-unity-opens-another-osx-dock-tray-icon-for-new-project-created-in-opened-editor-previous-pinned-icon-is-unclickable)
*   Editor: Fix errors in console when opening project with no longer supported build target selected (790514)
*   Editor: Fix icon tab in PlayerSettings doesn't stay open (831307)
*   Editor: Fix missing context menu on header of material inspector [(796924)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-right-mouse-click-the-material-in-inspector-doesnt-open-menu)
*   Editor: Fix poor performance when previewing FBX model. [(784892)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/huge-performance-loss-in-animation-window-while-rotating-model-in-inspectorwindow-dot-drawpreviewlabel)
*   Editor: Fix String Tag Map duplicating values on edit in debug inspector. [(773260)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspector-debug-arrays-values-get-duplicated-instead-of-changed-on-edit)
*   Editor: Fix String Tag Map not reset on material reset. [(772384)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/string-tag-map-does-not-reset-on-material-reset-after-being-set-by-the-standard-shader)
*   Editor: Fix that no assets are shown in the project browser after rename [(748103)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-renaming-asset-all-assets-disappear-from-the-project-window)
*   Editor: Fix to make foldouts in internal inspectors behave like property fields. [(784939)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clicking-on-3d-sound-settings-text-does-not-expand-in-inspector)
*   Editor: Fix to make validation for Delete asset menu items more consistent. This for instance prevents the delete option from being displayed when not applicable. [(581887)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-should-not-be-able-to-select-delete-when-the-delete-option-is-not-supported)
*   Editor: Fix unneccessary reimporting of audio files when switching platforms [(782188)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-on-graphics-api-settings-change-audio-files-get-reimported)
*   Editor: Fix white skin showing in Preferences window options list when dark skin was set [(732880)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preferenceitem-scrollbar-in-preferenceitems-list-makes-it-to-use-free-skin-instead-of-pro)
*   Editor: Fixed a crash when importing a grayscale image as single channel with low quality setting. [(831768)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-a-grayscale-image-as-single-channel-with-low-quality-setting-throws-null-exception)
*   Editor: Fixed an issue that could cause scenes containing prefab instances with driven transforms to immediately become dirty (709639)
*   Editor: Fixed case of blank/grey webviews in the main window under macOS 10.12.1. (842708)
*   Editor: Fixed case of RenderTexture inspector missing ARGB4444 and determining ARGB1555 incorrectly. [(832867)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-color-format-of-a-texture-is-set-to-argb4444-the-preview-window-shows-argb1555)
*   Editor: Fixed case of TextEditor caret position being reset after domain reload. [(821758)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/caret-position-resets-in-any-input-field-when-compiling-finishes)
*   Editor: Fixed changing order of components not getting saved. We now also support undo. [(764986)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/componentreordering-order-of-components-isnt-saved)
*   Editor: Fixed crash when duplicating a gameobject which has a name that is all numbers and a right parenthesis e.g. "10)" [(817928)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-cxxthrowexception-when-duplicating-object)
*   Editor: Fixed crash when trying to emulate shader model 2. [(828845)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashed-when-trying-to-emulate-shader-model-2)
*   Editor: Fixed Defult-Medium parameter in the lighting window to appear as not viewable. [(762159)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/advancedparameters-default-medium-parameter-name-is-misleading-when-used-in-advanced-parameters-field)
*   Editor: Fixed exceptions in corner cases when closing tabs for editor windows. [(813333)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-window-goes-blank-argumentoutofrangeexception)
*   Editor: Fixed input reset in editor when iOS device without Unity Remote is selected. [(832368)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-is-reset-after-a-few-seconds-if-an-ios-device-is-selected-for-unity-remote-but-the-remote-app-isnt-running)
*   Editor: Fixed issue that could result in a crash when doing copy/paste between gradient fields. [(711487)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gradient-unity-editor-crashes-when-copying-one-gradient-to-another-gradient-of-a-monobehaviour-script-in-the-editor)
*   Editor: Fixed issue whereby the name of a newly-created asset would be displayed in the wrong case occasionally. [(536739)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/creating-a-folder-with-the-name-of-a-scene-makes-the-folder-use-the-capitalization-of-the-scene-name)
*   Editor: Fixed object culling when unparenting from a mask type [(740604)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rectmask2d-image-gets-masked-even-if-it-is-reparented-to-object-without-mask-component)
*   Editor: Fixed redo of selection only restoring selection to previously active game object. (775865)
*   Editor: Fixed RenderTexture preview in Mac/Linux editor. [(498769)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preview-for-a-rendertexture-is-broken-mac-osx-only)
*   Editor: Fixed Scene View filtering not always getting correctly cleared which could cause previously filtered objects to get picked when they shouldn’t be
*   Editor: Fixed the display of vector and matrix params in "Show compiled shader" display
*   Editor: Fixed WebViewWindowPrivate::OnLoadEnd crash related to Collab Toolbar usage. (840217)
*   Editor: If a read only file or folder is duplicated, the read only status is no longer also duplicated [(730245)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/perforce-duplicating-an-asset-with-perforce-intergration-doesnt-set-file-as-writable)
*   Editor: Invalidly named files can no longer be dragged into a project [(663994)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/import-error-missing-destination-path-failed-import)
*   Editor: Nullify RECT in case GetClientRect fails so we don't have trash in RECT. (825082)
*   Editor: Re-instated '\*' and '?' in the project browser search string splitter list. [(771577)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asterisk-star-not-working-as-a-wild-card-when-searching-for-an-asset-in-project-browser)
*   Editor: Several tooltips were not working across the editor. (783770)
*   Editor: Stacktrace now available for exceptions on non-main threads [(633905)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/comparebaseobjectsinternal-can-only-be-called-from-the-main-thread-dot-error-does-not-point-to-the-particular-script-or-line)
*   Editor: Stacktrace now available for methods called on non-main threads (697872)
*   Editor: The text in the Build Settings window will no longer get clipped if support for Standalone is not currently installed. (728634)
*   Editor: The titles of the 'Version Control' and 'Asset Server' windows have been fixed in order to make them consistent [(573557)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/minor-window-version-control-opens-window-named-versioning)
*   Editor: Upgrading a project set to a unsuported platform will now upgrade it to Standalone. [(770135)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-settings-window-gets-corrupted-if-predefined-target-platform-doesnt-exist)
*   Editor: Use 'Save Scenes' in File Menu instead of 'Save Scene' since all modified scenes are saved
*   Editor: Will not reference .NET 4.x assemblies when compiling scripts for the Editor even if the settings allow it, Editor can only understand assemblies targeting .NET 3.5 or lower [(777750)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-import-adding-an-assembly-file-in-the-asset-directory-not-via-unity-throws-error-and-causes-editor-render-issues)
*   Editor: Workaround an issue where cursor would disappear on touch based devices like Surface Pro 4 [(817286)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cursor-is-not-visible-in-editor-window)
*   GI: Fix for out-of-memory failure in Visibility Upsampling when baking lightmaps for a large scene. (819841)
*   GI: Fixed case of GI being overridden by bad values from cache after using meta pass for emission. [(741304)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gi-overridden-by-bad-values-from-cache-after-using-a-range-parameter-for-a-vector-to-calculate-emission)
*   GI: Fixed issue where backface tolerance was not applied when baking lightmap with Final Gather. [(733421, 792579)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/final-gather-doesnt-take-backface-tolerance-into-account-when-building-lightmaps)
*   GI: Renamed LightmapEditorSettings.resolution to realtimeResolution. [(753022)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightmapeditorsettings-resolution-var-changes-indirect-rather-than-baked-map-resolution)
*   Graphics: Add a program warning when shader target is increased above #pragma target due to feature use (e.g. geom shaders). [(757859)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/number-pragma-target-in-some-shader-does-not-work)
*   Graphics: Avoid creating textures with unsupported formats, if uses tries to create one without checking SystemInfo.SupportsTextureFormat first. [(786229)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dx9-yuy2-texture-dot-apply-on-yuy2-texture-crashes-when-using-dx9)
*   Graphics: Change light shadows near plane minimum bound to either 1% of range or 0.1, whichever is lower.
*   Graphics: Disabled instancing for renderers that use lightprobes or lightmaps, in order to optimize GPU performance. [(843125)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/5-dot-5-regression-50-percent-performance-drop-happens-when-upgrading-project-from-5-dot-4-to-5-dot-5)
*   Graphics: Editor window title was only updated after changing graphics emulation, leaving it a step behind when changing build targets. (795797)
*   Graphics: Ensure that we don't set unsupported filter or wrap modes [(778188)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-opengles2-rendertexture-does-not-work-on-opengles2-if-its-size-is-not-a-power-of-2)
*   Graphics: Fix a shader compiler crash if a compute shader declares a samplerstate that doesn't match the naming scheme. [(719344)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/compute-multiple-internal-errors-when-compiling-shader)
*   Graphics: Fix DX11 shader disassembly not showing correctly in the editor UI for 'show compiled code'.
*   Graphics: Fixed a case where the editor could get out of sync with what graphics APIs were enabled and build a player without the matching shaders. (792541)
*   Graphics: Fixed a crash happening in GetLightProbeProxyVolumeSample or GetReflectionSample function [(806160)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-getlightprobeproxyvolumesample)
*   Graphics: Fixed a crash in Reflection Probe component when multiple scenes are used [(811241)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standalone-mse-unloading-an-active-scene-which-has-a-realtime-reflection-probe-crashes-build)
*   Graphics: Fixed an issue that prevented the Splash Screen from being shown under certain circumstances. [(732338)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-personal-splash-screen-is-not-shown-if-there-are-any-audioclips-loaded-on-start-in-the-main-thread)
*   Graphics: Fixed an issue where recalculating LOD bounds won't dirty the scene and record an undo. [(808278)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lod-lods-bounding-box-is-not-aligned-with-lodgroup)
*   Graphics: Fixed aniso setting for uploaded textures. [(814501)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/imageeffects-tonemapping-and-color-grading-lut-causes-visual-artifacts-in-builds-unity-5-dot-4)
*   Graphics: Fixed assert in static batching code where different types of renderers share the same material.
*   Graphics: Fixed billboard batching when rendering a large number of billboards. [(836486)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/billboard-massplacetrees-billboards-are-cut-after-mass-placing-more-than-10k-trees-on-terrain)
*   Graphics: Fixed bug in GLSL shader translation that crashed gpu on OSX.
*   Graphics: Fixed case of display renderingWidth and renderingHeight incorrectly returning system resolution values.
*   Graphics: Fixed case of Shader.SetGlobalVector/SetGlobalMatrix and CommandBuffer equivalents not being able to set some of the global properties (the "built-in" ones).
*   Graphics: Fixed changing shader emulation or shader hardware tier emulation keeping around an extra menu separator each time. [(795700)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graphicsemulation-empty-menu-item-appears-on-each-platform-switch)
*   Graphics: Fixed crashes on very large image imports [(801677)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crashed-while-importing)
*   Graphics: Fixed division by zero error in vertex shader when vertex overlaps a light. (776123)
*   Graphics: Fixed incorrect shadow sampling parameters on Metal. (812178, 812180)
*   Graphics: Fixed incorrect standard shader self-shadowing when using parallax+alphatest. (631592)
*   Graphics: Fixed issue where instantiating non-readable texture crashes Unity on Texture2D::AwakeFromLoad. [(843287)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/instantiating-non-readable-texture-crashes-unity-on-texture2d-awakefromload)
*   Graphics: Fixed issue whereby TransformDirection and InverseTransformDirection operations were affected by scale. [(819962)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transformdirection-and-inversetransformdirection-operations-are-affected-by-scale)
*   Graphics: Fixed mesh not properly disappearing if deleting the MeshFilter component [(757838)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/meshfilter-mesh-does-not-disappear-when-deleting-its-mesh-filter)
*   Graphics: Fixed RenderTexture mipmap generation on Metal when multiple render targets are used.
*   Graphics: Fixed shader error messages for unknown queues include shader name and highlight shader object. [(743871)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/link-to-the-corresponding-shader-is-not-shown-when-undefined-queue-error-is-displayed)
*   Graphics: Fixed TrailRenderer showing a gap between current position and the last update. [(779129)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trail-renderer-showing-a-gap)
*   Graphics: Graphics: Fix internal profiler for static batching on Android, iPhone and Metro [(769539)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-internal-profiler-reports-static-draw-call-statistics-the-same-as-dynamic-draw-calls)
*   Graphics: Guard against using various null/deleted assets in command buffers.
*   Graphics: If Graphics.SetRandomWriteTarget is called with an out of range index, an exception is thrown instead of crashing. [(766695)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/calling-method-graphics-dot-setrandomwritetarget-int-computebuffer-with-high-values-results-in-crash)
*   Graphics: Introduced check to verify that camera is still valid to render after OnPreRender callback. [(826844)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-using-scissor-rectangle-script-renderimagefilters-renderloop-and-rendertexture-star-bool)
*   Graphics: Material's cached RenderType tag value is reset when changing shader on it [(806751)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transparent-shader-writes-into-depthnormals-texture)
*   Graphics: Metal: Fixed broken view scaling / rendering when changing resolution from script. [(818563)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-metal-fullscreen-player-is-not-fitted-to-the-screen-correctly-with-metal-graphics-api-on-5-dot-5)
*   Graphics: Metal: Implemented adaptive size on constant buffer pool. [(820692)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-metal-osx-metal-build-runs-slower-than-glcore-volumetric-fog-and-mist-project)
*   Graphics: Prevent RendererScene modifications from inside OnPreRender callbacks, similar to other callbacks. (829694)
*   Graphics: Protected against some thread-unsafe code inside shader property name handling. (794400)
*   Graphics: Renderers now are not culled by a disabled LODGroup.
*   Graphics: Shader: Add overloads with float4, avoids implicit truncation warning (769744)
*   Graphics: Shaders using more than the maximum available number of textures will be marked as unsupported. [(767884)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-corruption-when-exceeding-kmaxsupportedtextureunits)
*   Graphics: SpeedTree: Fixed rendering on some of the mobile devices (e.g. iPhone 6s) when tree is in dithering.
*   Graphics: TreeCreator: Fixed errors when branch length is zero. [(468942)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/extending-the-length-of-a-tree-gives-a-quaternion-to-matrix-conversion-failure)
*   Graphics: When changing shader hardware tier emulation, only reload shaders (not textures/RTs) to stop refl probes breaking. [(755072)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-shader-hardware-tier-through-graphics-emulation-affects-reflection-probes)
*   Graphics: When making a RenderDoc capture from editor UI, make sure to include the whole frame including user script updates. [(762795)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renderdoc-compute-shader-dispatch-calls-do-not-show-in-the-event-log)
*   IL2CPP: Generate proper C++ code for the p/invoke wrapper for a delegate that accepts another delegate as an output parameter. [(778146)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-xcode-project-fails-to-compile-when-using-a-delegate-with-out-action-parameter-in-a-script)
*   IL2CPP: Improve error message when link.xml file specifies assembly not referenced in project [(719650)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-fails-with-link-dot-xml)
*   IL2CPP: Provide a useful error message when an interface cannot be found on a class because it was not AOT compiled. [(798625)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bug-with-il2cpp)
*   IL2CPP: Support proper default marshaling of string parameters and return values when the CharSet attribute is provided on a method with a value of Unicode. (692653)
*   IL2CPP: WebGL/iOS: UI module will no longer depend on and require Physics and Physics2D modules [(788244)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/seemingly-unnecessary-classes-physics-included-in-webgl-build-when-scene-contains-canvas-and-canvas-scaler-components)
*   IMGUI: Same key can be set to multiple tools. [(374335)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/same-key-can-be-set-to-multiple-tools)
*   IMGUI: Windows: Edit -> Select All does not function. Ctrl A does work [(370257)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-edit-select-all-does-not-function-ctrl-a-does-work)
*   IMGUI: \[PlayerSettings\] After changing Graphics API some UI elements do not respond correctly [(752218)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playersettings-after-changing-graphics-api-some-ui-elements-do-not-respond-correctly)
*   Input: Input.mousePosition is no longer clamped to the client area on windows standalone, the last position is kept instead. [(769666)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standalone-ui-elements-on-the-edge-of-the-screen-still-get-mouse-over-input-when-your-mouse-is-outside-the-window)
*   iOS: Add icon for iPad Pro (755415)
*   iOS: AdSupport should be in frequent frameworks; it's not default (732878)
*   iOS: Do not export non-prefixed freetype2 symbols (778668)
*   iOS: Ensure that our symbols are not overridden by user libraries [(774685)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-application-crashes-after-an-appended-build-when-using-cardboard-sdk-version-0-dot-5-1)
*   iOS: Fix code completion for iOS Editor Extensions [(759212)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-monodevelop-unityeditor-dot-ios-dot-xcode-namespace-isnt-recognised-in-monodevelop)
*   iOS: Fix to adapt font fallback order to Korean and Chinese locales where applicable. [(821645)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-chinese-word-men-is-displayed-wrongly-on-ios-devices-changes-to-japanese-word)
*   iOS: Fix to enable native remote notification APIs when only the device identifier API is used. [(830528)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-notificationservices-dot-registerfornotifications-does-not-return-the-device-token-from-apple-push-service)
*   iOS: Fixed issues with Input.touchPressureSupported incorrectly reporting false. [(834172)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-input-dot-touchpressuresupported-returns-false-on-force-touch-enabled-devices-the-first-time-an-app-is-launched)
*   iOS: Fixed touch input latency issues on iOS 10. [(817056)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-touch-input-drops-out-at-high-fps)
*   iOS: Metal: Fixed a race condition leading to a crash when changing resolution on startup. [(820885)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-in-agxmetalagx-framebuffer-agx-g3-encoders-agx-g3-classes-agx-g3-objclasses-framebuffer)
*   iOS: Support more than one pending game center user callback [(755388)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-social-dot-reportprogress-only-returns-last-callback-when-its-called-several-times-in-a-single-frame)
*   iOS: Support null user callbacks in the game center
*   iOS/Xcode: Add .tbd extension support
*   JsonUtility: Fixed crash when serializing very large arrays to JSON [(759529)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/jsonutility-tojson-with-lists-and-lots-of-data-causes-crash)
*   Launcher: Fixed Account Help link in launcher. Now points to Account Help instead of Unity general help. [(784432)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-help-option-under-my-account-on-unitys-home-screen-points-to-the-wrong-page)
*   Launcher: Fixed Asset importing issues when creating new project from launcher. [(837516)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-osx-5-dot-5-gaia-package-cannot-be-imported-through-launcher-window)
*   Lines: Fixed case of LineRenderer setPositions resulting in an "index out of bounds" error. [(820738)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linerenderer-setpositions-gives-index-out-of-bounds-error)
*   Linux: Fix antialiasing in various window configurations
*   Linux: Fix repeated play/stop/pause with WebCamTexture (780810)
*   Linux: Fix upscaled fullscreen rendering on OpenGL Core
*   Linux: Sanitize company and product locations when creating directories for preferences (763625)
*   LOD: Fixed unreachable code warnings when distance == selection.maxDistance. [(783219)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lod-code-supposed-to-be-unreachable-error-in-the-console)
*   Materials: Fix a crash if GetMaterialProperties is called with a null in the list of materials [(764995)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/passing-null-to-materialeditor-dot-getmaterialproperties-crashes-at-pptr-operator-shader-star-ptr64)
*   Metal: Fixed rendering of masked contents on GUI layer [(802534)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/masked-gui-contents-are-visible-in-os-x-builds)
*   Mono: Fix Thread.MemoryBarrier implementation on ARM architecture [(810451)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-ios-thread-dot-memorybarrier-does-not-prevent-instruction-reordering-with-mono-backend)
*   Mono: Fix to prevent floating point operations from returning incorrect values when a managed debugger is attached. (836825)
*   Mono: Improve call stack walking on WIndows 64-bit (809003)
*   MonoDevelop: Disabled Git and Subversion add-ins by default. Fixes issue with being unable to write to newly created scripts (759138)
*   MonoDevelop: Fixed issue with MonoDevelop showing "��u" symbols in document view after using "Save As" [(754609)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/monodevelop-5-dot-9-6-new-saved-file-opens-with-u-symbols-instead-of-its-content)
*   MonoDevelop: Fixed issue with MonoDevelop sometimes giving focus to the wrong script when opened from Unity [(485138)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wrong-script-opened-in-monodevelop)
*   MonoDevelop: OSX: Fixed issue with MonoDevelop not working when copied to case-sensitive partition [(729201)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-monodevelop-unusable-when-copied-to-an-external-hfs-plus-partition)
*   MonoDevelop: Show hint in breakpoints dialog that explains exceptions list is generated from currently selected project [(731111)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/monodevelop-attaching-breakpoint-for-exception-allows-only-system-dot-star-exception)
*   Networking: Fix issue with SendToAll sending double messages to local client when hosting. [(795897)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unet-client-dot-registerhandler-dot-dot-dot-being-called-twice-despite-that-message-was-sent-once)
*   Networking: Fixed issue where NetworkAnimator component gives NullRefExeption [(770215)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/networkanimator-component-gives-nullrefexeption-for-non-player-spawnable-objects)
*   Networking: Fixed so we properly handle updates in the inspector on spawnable prefabs and network channels [(798973, 764771)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unet-editor-does-not-save-channel-changes-in-network-manager)
*   Networking: Fixed so we reset the NetworkIdentity on destruction [(784474)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unet-enabling-pooled-objects-freezes-game-when-authority-was-changed-from-server-to-client)
*   Networking: Resolved problem with crash on exit. [(776536)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/if-start-server-and-client-are-in-standalones-and-connect-them-on-closing-standalone-with-client-it-crashes)
*   OpenGL: Fixed Asserts appearing after using brush color picker for choosing color and saving scene in the new project. [(824452)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playersettings-opengl-context-deaddeaddeaddead-assertion-appears-after-switching-graphics-api)
*   OSX: Fix to respect requested framerate in batch mode. [(702370)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-standalone-player-using-batchmode-command-line-argument-uses-up-about-70-percent-cpu)
*   OSX: Fixed an issue with SIMD math that prevented source code building on OSX
*   OSX: Fixed an issue with text pasting twice in text fields in the Standalone Player on OSX [(712948)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-pasting-text-with-cmd-plus-v-causes-text-to-get-pasted-2-times)
*   OSX: Fixed excessive CPU usage in batch mode. [(702370)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-standalone-player-using-batchmode-command-line-argument-uses-up-about-70-percent-cpu)
*   OSX Player: The OSX standalone player now allows to switch out of the application by using Cmd+Tab when running in fullscreen mode. (798133)
*   Particles: Added Undo support when auto reparenting sub emitters. [(544444)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undo-undo-does-not-cancel-reparent-of-sub-emitters)
*   Particles: Added extra parameter to ParticleSystem.Simulate script function, to allow updates with very small timesteps [(729435)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-dot-simulate-doesnt-update-with-small-timestep)
*   Particles: Added missing animation bindings.
*   Particles: DestroyImmediate in particle trigger callback crashes on Renderer::UpdateAllRenderersInternal [(806175)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-destroyimmediate-in-particle-trigger-callback-crashes-on-renderer-updateallrenderersinternal)
*   Particles: Editor now correctly focuses on empty particle systems. [(803084)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navigation-unity-does-not-focus-correctly-in-scene-view)
*   Particles: Emitters containing sub-emitters can have their playback time smoothly scrubbed in the Editor [(432980)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-emits-not-consistent-for-sub-emitters)
*   Particles: Fix to allow sub-emitters to use inherited velocity settings for any simulation space. [(822070)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-subemitters-not-inheriting-parent-velocity-when-using-inherit-velocity-module)
*   Particles: Fix to hide unncessary properties in the Renderer Module when using "None" render mode. [(831193)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendermode-the-new-none-render-mode-should-probably-hide-the-unnecessary-properties-from-the-renderer)
*   Particles: Fixed bounding box scaling on world simulated particle systems. [(811270)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-world-space-particles-ignore-scale-aabb)
*   Particles: Fixed bug where world collision didn't work when the particle system was scaled on the vertical axis. [(765535)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-world-collision-does-not-work-when-particle-system-is-scaled-on-vertical-axis)
*   Particles: Fixed case of custom LineRenderer animation vertexes being inverted occasionally. [(832043)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linerenderer-animation-behaviour-issue)
*   Particles: Fixed case of shape module single material index property cutting off when inspector was narrow.
*   Particles: Fixed collisions not being calculated in-between editor updates. [(489509)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/plane-collision-causes-erratic-behaviour-in-editor-mode)
*   Particles: Fixed horizontal/vertical billboards with pivot offset. Previously the particles would get scaled and flipped in such cases. [(746327)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pivot-offset-on-horizontal-slash-vertical-billboard-particles-scales-and-flips-the-particles)
*   Particles: Fixed incorrect inspector style on Particle System Renderer Pivot field. [(733896)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/font-size-of-pivot-param-of-renderer-particle-system-module-is-too-large)
*   Particles: Fixed issue where particle sub module parent was set incorrectly.
*   Particles: Fixed issue where setting Particle.rotation3D had no effect on a particle rotation in some cases. [(828869)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-particle-dot-rotation3d-has-no-effect-on-a-particle-rotation)
*   Particles: Fixed issue whereby a child sub-emitter could not be rotated and emitted in one direction only. [(781282)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-child-sub-emitter-cannot-be-rotated-and-emits-only-to-one-direction)
*   Particles: Fixed issue whereby disabled sub-emittor particles weren't cleared. [(829208)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/disabled-sub-emittor-particles-arent-cleared)
*   Particles: Fixed issue whereby mesh particles with negative scale would get inverted incorrectly with standard shaders. [(803265)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-mesh-particles-with-negative-scale-are-inverted-incorrectly-with-standart-shaders)
*   Particles: Fixed issue whereby state getters would return the wrong value for one-shot systems that had died offscreen. [(800868)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/isalive-isplaying-particle-systems-which-finish-playing-off-screen-always-return-true-for-isalive-and-isplaying)
*   Particles: Fixed mesh particles not being scaled when in world space [(772199)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-meshes-are-not-scaled-at-all-on-world-simulation-space)
*   Particles: Fixed missing animation bindings to particle system modules. It is now possible to animate all modules. [(761003)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-initial-module-properties-cannot-be-animated)
*   Particles: Fixed particle system default values not being set when created using AddComponent. Editor behaviour is now the same as standalone(Material is now defaulted to null instead of Default-Particle as the material may not have been included in a build). [(764899, 756699)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particlesystem-added-via-addcomponent-uses-pink-error-shader-and-different-default-values-in-stand-alone)
*   Particles: Fixed particles disappearing when very large far camera clip plane values are used. (753275)
*   Particles: Improved Inspector labels to make low quality paticle collisions more intuitive [(754014)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/low-quality-particle-collision-exhibits-unintuitive-behaviour)
*   Particles: Medium quality collisions can now be used with static colliders only. [(822417)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onparticlecollision-gameobject-triggers-when-there-is-nothing-to-collide-with)
*   Particles: Nested subemitter does not emit bursts when simulating in editor but works fine when played [(803350)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-nested-subemitter-does-not-emit-bursts-when-simulating-in-editor-but-works-fine-when-played)
*   Particles: Particles emited via script with EmitParams flicker when using sort modes [(765375)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-particle-sort-mode-causes-flicker-emited-via-script-emit-with-emitparams)
*   Particles: Particles sometimes spawn without start speed when shape is circle (807628)
*   Particles: Particles will now use a rigidbody's velocity if one is present. [(800811)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-with-inherit-velocity-enabled-particles-vector-is-the-sum-of-emitters-current-and-last-velocity-vector)
*   Particles: ParticleSystem.Play() with start delay pauses the particles [(803272)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particlesystem-dot-play-with-start-delay-pauses-the-particles)
*   Particles: Scale is now applied to stretch parameters. [(804772)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-scale-ignored-by-stretch-render-mode)
*   Particles: Simulating particle system in scene view stops it after certain amount of time [(801335)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-simulating-particle-system-in-scene-view-stops-it-after-certain-amount-of-time)
*   Particles: Skinned Mesh Renderer without a mesh assigned to particle system shape crashes Unity (807942)
*   Particles: Start delay is only applied when the system time is 0. [(754270)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particlesystem-dot-pause-resets-start-delay)
*   Particles: The particle ID changes when one of the sorting mode is enabled [(501463)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-particle-id-changes-when-one-of-the-sorting-mode-is-enabled)
*   Physics: Added warning in ClothInspector if MeshRenderer used with Cloth component. To inform user that this is not allowed and that the MeshRenderer component will be deleted at runtime. Also, create undo point for when MeshRenderer deleted from Cloth component and copy all settings from MeshRenderer to SkinnedMeshRenderer. [(769137)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cloth-cloth-deletes-meshrenderer-component-when-entering-playmode)
*   Physics: Animating the Transform position/rotation when using 'Animate Physics' now correctly uses Rigidbody2D MovePosition/MoveRotation. [(798901)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animate-physics-works-differently-with-2d-and-3d-objects)
*   Physics: Changing Rigidbody2D.gravityScale whilst a Rigidbody2D.MovePosition is in progress now works. [(762771)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/object-not-affected-by-gravity-if-moveposition-is-executed-before-gravityscale-is-set)
*   Physics: Enabling a Static 2D trigger collider now results in a callback if in contact with a sleeping collider. [(807288)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerenter2d-not-called-when-enabling-gameobject)
*   Physics: Ensure Joint2D auto-configuration still works if joint is added from script. [(765870)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spring-joints2d-distance-values-different-when-added-manually-and-procedurally)
*   Physics: Ensure that 2D Overlap/Cast checks use consistent 'skin' radius for all shapes. [(766261)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/boxcast2d-and-circlecast2d-has-inconsistent-edges-at-the-starting-collider)
*   Physics: Ensure that a TargetJoint2D added via script allows collisions with static colliders. [(763922)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/targetjoint2d-added-during-runtime-ignores-collision)
*   Physics: Fix a problem where both AreaEffector2D and PointEffector2D scaled-up forces for each additional collider on a rigidbody. [(780257)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/force-applied-by-area-slash-point-effector-is-multiplied-by-the-number-of-colliders-even-when-force-target-is-rigidbody)
*   Physics: Fix a problem where constantly changing an Effector2D collider would mean that no contacts were ever processed stopping the effector from working.
*   Physics: Fix center of mass and inertia tensor being reset after game object was reactivated (765300)
*   Physics: Fix convex mesh inflation causing flat MeshCollider to be enlarged twice along each dimension [(677652)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/collider-convex-mesh-collider-is-twice-bigger-than-rendered-quad)
*   Physics: Fix crash in cloth cooking when instantiated game object is activated. [(775583)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-cloth-crash-on-physx-pxfabriccookerimpl-cook-when-instantiated-game-object-is-activated)
*   Physics: Fix for Collision2D.relativeVelocity being reported with incorrect values. [(758422)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/relativevelocity-dot-magnitude-is-measured-differently-in-5-dot-3)
*   Physics: Fix interpolated ragdolls jitter under certain circumstances [(772337)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/interpolated-ragdolls-jitter-when-physics-are-updated-every-second-frame-fixedtimestep-0-dot-033)
*   Physics: Fix issue for Circle, Box & Capsule casting API where an initial overlapped state was not correctly detected.
*   Physics: Fix issue where Character Controller firing trigger callbacks when Character Controller center is set. [(783968)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-charactercontroller-dot-center-wil-trigger-ontriggerenter-slash-ontriggerexit-callbacks)
*   Physics: Fix issue where Max Angular Velocity values being reset when disabled. (802249)
*   Physics: Fix issue where Setting Configurable Joint target position not waking up connected bodies. [(733654)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-configurablejoints-target-position-from-script-does-not-update-the-position)
*   Physics: Fix issue with Box2D internal pending contact buffer growing due to collider changes outside of play-mode in the editor slowing changes down. [(777591)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics2d-dot-collidercleanup-takes-progressively-longer-each-time-until-scene-is-reopened)
*   Physics: Fix issue with dragging a Sprite/Texture2D into the inspector causing a PolygonCollider2D to use it even though it is not dropped on the component. [(778125)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/polygoncollider2d-is-reshaped-if-sprite-is-dragged-into-the-public-field-of-the-script)
*   Physics: Fix issue with multi-object editing on Rigidbody2D & Collider2D now correctly showing properties of different values.
*   Physics: Fix MeshCollider cubes not falling asleep on Terrain under certain circumstances (628258)
*   Physics: Fix physics queries detecting backfaces inconsistently [(753730)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sweeptest-slash-boxcast-does-not-detect-all-collisions)
*   Physics: FIx Raycast against MeshCollider returning wrong RaycastHit.triangleIndex when degenerate triangles were present in the mesh [(699563)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raycasthit-returns-the-wrong-triangle-index-in-unity-5)
*   Physics: Fix Raycast detecting false hits when the whole scene was enlarged [(732865)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raycast-hits-appear-when-the-whole-scene-is-enlarged)
*   Physics: Fix Raycast ignoring part of the mesh [(722954)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raycast-meshcollider-dot-raycast-ignores-a-part-of-the-mesh)
*   Physics: Fix RayCast not detecting hits with a MeshCollider under certain circumstances [(733291)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ray-fails-to-hit-mesh-collider)
*   Physics: Fix Raycasts against CapsuleCollider returning incorrect result occasionally (718712)
*   Physics: Fix Rigidbody starting to bounce or falls through the ground when center of mass was offset from the pivot [(797993)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody-starts-bouncing-or-falls-through-the-ground-when-center-of-mass-is-offset-from-the-pivot)
*   Physics: Fix setting useGravity to true though it was already true causing the Rigidbody to become awake [(796324)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-usegravity-to-true-though-it-was-already-true-causes-rigidbody-to-become-awake)
*   Physics: Fix some tooltips on the Edit -> Project Settings -> Physics pane [(785308)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physicsmanager-proporties-of-the-physicsmanager-are-described-incorrectly)
*   Physics: Fix SphereCast failing to detect Collider at certain coordinates [(720683)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spherecast-collider-isnt-detected-when-sphere-cast-is-created-in-certain-coordinates)
*   Physics: Fix SphereCast returning inaccurate hit position against non-uniformly scaled colliders (790258)
*   Physics: Fix SphereCast returning inconsistent results against convex colliders [(746417)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spherecast-convex-collision-is-inconsistent-compared-to-non-convex)
*   Physics: Fix SpringJoint's min and max distances being updated wrongly after set to the same value [(788323)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/springjoint-if-min-and-max-distances-are-equal-then-changing-min-distance-in-runtime-will-set-max-distance-to-the-same-value)
*   Physics: Fix the surface normal being inverted by CharacterController when colliding with a sphere [(704111)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spherecollider-surface-normal-on-hit-is-inversed)
*   Physics: Fix to ensure that changing a Collider2D property via the inspector doesn't reset the OnCollision or OnTrigger state back to 'Enter'. [(786032)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerenter2d-is-called-instead-of-ontriggerstay2d-when-collider2d-geometry-properties-are-being-modified)
*   Physics: Fix to ensure that changing the Rigidbody2D.bodyType doesn't affect the Trigger/Collision callback state.
*   Physics: Fixed a memory leak that occured when applying animated non-uniform scaling to a MeshCollider. [(828570)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/having-an-animator-animating-a-non-uniformly-scaled-meshcollider-component-results-in-a-memory-leak)
*   Physics: Fixed a TerrainCollider crash that could be triggered when a capsule collided with an edge whose shared triangles had a hole material. (822486)
*   Physics: Fixed bug where MeshRenderer would occasionally miss a transform update from an interpolated kinematic Rigidbody. [(822406)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-rigidbody-dot-position-for-rigidbody-with-interpolation-enabled-doesnt-update-mesh-location)
*   Physics: Fixed case of CharacterController falling through very long MeshColliders. [(806800)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/collision-detection-constantly-failing)
*   Physics: Fixed case of Raycast failing to detect hits with a scaled dense MeshCollider at certain locations. [(772433)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics-dot-raycast-misses-scaled-mesh-in-some-places)
*   Physics: Fixed case of SphereCastAll returning inverse normals when cast against MeshColliders with backfaced triangles. [(775825)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spherecastall-hits-return-inverse-normals)
*   Physics: Fixed huge performance spike when activating a gameobject with Cloth component. [(760721)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/huge-performance-spike-when-activating-a-gameobject-with-cloth-component)
*   Physics: Fixed missing or invalid properties when accessing them through script, except useVirtualParticles ( won't fix as this will be deprecated soon ) [(743626)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clothapi-missing-or-invalid-properties-when-accessing-them-through-script)
*   Physics: Renamed 'Physics2D Material' to 'Physics Material 2D' in the create drop-down in the project view. [(564671)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/t-physics2dmaterial-search-shows-no-results)
*   Physics: Rigidbodies without non-trigger colliders can have custom center of mass and inertia tensor again [(763806)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-center-of-mass-and-inertia-tensor-values-cannot-be-set-on-a-rigidbody-without-a-non-trigger-collider)
*   Physics: Stop Rigidbody2D with Interpolation being placed at world origin for a single update upon start. [(764769)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody2d-with-interpolate-and-start-asleep-flickers-after-addforce)
*   Physics: SurfaceEffector2D now correctly calculates tangent velocities for objects with forces opposing the desired surface speed. [(798879)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/surface-effector-doesnt-work-on-the-right-side-of-the-sprite)
*   Physics: Toggling 'Rigidbody2D.IsKinematic' or 'Rigidbody2D.useFullKinematicContacts' properties in the Inspector during play-mode now correctly updates the Rigidbody2D. [(806089)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics2d-toggling-iskinematic-in-inspector-when-game-is-running-has-no-impact-on-game-object)
*   Physics: WheelJoint2D suspension angle now correctly deserialized when used in prefabs. [(759676)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wheeljoint2d-does-not-parse-suspension-angle-from-prefab-when-asset-serialization-is-set-to-force-text)
*   Profiler: Fixed self-profiling of Profiler.BeginSample calls in deep-profiling mode. Previously the profiler would show irrelevant data in such cases. [(776595)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-shows-unnecessary-entries-when-deep-profiling)
*   Profiler: Prevented negative numbers in the Physics Profiler and showing more accurate numbers for dynamic rigid bodies and kinematic nodes instead. [(792907)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics-profiler-reports-incorrect-numbers-for-active-and-sleeping-rigidbodies-when-ragdoll-is-kinematic)
*   Profiler: Save Record setting when re-opening the Profiler window during the Editor session [(704398)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profilers-record-setting-gets-enabled-again-when-re-opening-the-profiler-window)
*   Profiler: Show correct used memory graph when allocated memory exceeds 2GB (663149)
*   Resources: Fix to prevent crashes and memory corruptions when Resources.UnloadAsset is used to unload non-assets or non-unloadable assets. A warning is now issued in such cases. [(767120)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/resources-dot-load-crash-in-messageforwarder-willhandlemessage-when-calling-resources-dot-load)
*   Samsung TV: Fixed SIMD bug which could cause occlusion culling to not work as intended
*   Samsung TV: UNET's device discovery is now supported
*   Scene Manager: Fixed crash that could occur when user unloads a scene immediately after starting an asynchronous load of the scene. [(842396)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-unityscene-getbuildindex-const-when-scenemanager-dot-unloadscene-is-called-in-start-function)
*   Scripting: Always throw an exception when calling AssetDatabase methods from constructors and during serialization [(765357)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pure-virtual-function-call-crash-on-import)
*   Scripting: Fix crash when field type in C# (array) and single string in prefab (YAML) mismatches [(790501)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-mono-string-new-when-trying-to-open-scene)
*   Scripting: Fix SerializeProperty.type for serialized objects in arrays (was always "Generic Mono") [(705074)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/propertydrawer-dot-ongui-in-ongui-serializedproperty-dot-type-returns-generic-mono-if-serialized-object-is-in-an-array)
*   Scripting: Fixed crash after calling DestroyImmediate(gameObject) in MonoBehaviour.Awake [(766939)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/destroyimmediate-calling-getcomponent-after-destroyimmediate-crashes-at-monobehaviour-callawake)
*   Scripting: Fixed crash in some cases when using DestroyImmediate in a coroutine (764672)
*   Scripting: Fixed crash relating to construction of a generic Dictionary via reflection. [(829757)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-mono-class-init-using-reflection-to-get-an-item-from-a-dictionary-with-string-as-key-and-another-collection-as-a-value)
*   Scripting: Fixed crash that may occur when \[InitializeOnLoad\] attribute is present on generic type (803587)
*   Scripting: Fixed crash when accessing SerializedProperty.tooltip in some cases [(723650)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/accessing-tooltip-property-of-serializedproperty-crashes-unity)
*   Scripting: Fixed crash when calling 'AppDomain.Load(byte\[\], byte\[\])' in a non-development player. [(827833)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assembly-dot-load-crashes-in-windows-standalone-build)
*   Scripting: Fixed issue with being unable to use ScriptableObject.CreateInstance with a nested ScriptableObject class [(697550)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scriptableobject-class-inside-another-class-inheriting-scriptableobject-returns-null-when-using-createinstance)
*   Scripting: Fixed Mono AOT registration of Shuriken icalls [(754856)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unregistered-icall-error-using-particlesystem-dot-emissionmodule-dot-enabled-on-ios-slash-mono2x)
*   Scripting: GetComponent throws an exception if called from constructors or deserialization [(750066)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/javascript-crashes-when-using-getcomponent-when-declaring-variable)
*   Scripting: GetTransform<>() invoked from a constructor or field initializer could crash Unity. [(750066)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/javascript-crashes-when-using-getcomponent-when-declaring-variable)
*   Shaders: Added SetFloatArray and related functions to Material class, to match the functions in MaterialPropertyBlock. [(795553)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-input-arrays-not-getting-set-unity-5-dot-4)
*   Shaders: Added support for parsing errors from #error in a shader. [(824020)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crashes-when-applying-a-shader-with-number-error-directive-to-a-material)
*   Shaders: Allow manual inclusion of Lighting.cginc in surface shaders (allows redefining macros before it). [(774822)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-5-dot-4-rtp-rtp-terrain-shader-rendering-is-broken-after-upgrading-project-to-5-dot-4)
*   Shaders: Changed shader cginc handling to properly handle nested and relative include paths. (735442)
*   Shaders: Changed shader search paths so that the shader file had higher precedence than the project root. [(754682)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/if-a-cginc-file-exists-in-a-parent-directory-its-preferred-over-a-local-cginc-file)
*   Shaders: Correct a compile error if a project had a local modified copy of some of the Unity includes [(782199)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-function-unitygi-unityglobalillumination-specific-overload-causes-compilation-errors)
*   Shaders: Fix a case where a material using standard shader with transparency could be sorted wrongly if the shader is reselected [(778700)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standard-shader-transparent-rendering-mode-after-changes-becomes-invisible)
*   Shaders: Fix a potential crash if an internal error is encountered compiling a D3D11 shader [(782654)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-crash-when-a-shader-has-errors-with-bad-error-message)
*   Shaders: Fixed an editor crash on shutdown if the shader compiler had previously crashed [(752250)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadercompiler-internal-compilation-errors-in-the-console-causes-crash-when-closing-editor)
*   Shaders: Fixed header annotations on shaderlab properties overwriting the name of the property in the material editor. [(793168)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/material-header-attribute-causes-first-property-after-it-to-have-same-name-as-header)
*   Shaders: Fixed Metal depth output to be always float.
*   Shaders: Fixed shader compiler crash when writing to depth output [(830427)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-no-longer-compiles-with-internal-error)
*   Shaders: Fixed support for CustomEditor statements in fixed function shaderlab shaders. [(793886)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaderlab-customeditor-work-with-non-fixed-function-shader-only)
*   Shaders: Improved error messages if a syntax error is found early in surface analysis [(784141)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lambert-with-surfaceoutputstandard-gives-syntax-error-instead-of-clear-error-message)
*   Shaders: Mobile normal mapped shaders have texture tiling/offset field hidden on normal maps now, since it does not do anything. [(794072)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/normalmap-tiling-not-working-on-mobile-bumped-diffuse-shader)
*   Shaders: Removed a spurious error about \_Emission if a legacy Self-Illumin shader was selected in a material [(786534)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-legacy-shaders-slash-self-illumin-slash-vertexlit-expectes-emission-property)
*   Shaders: Surface shader analysis wasn't accounting for properties used in GI like ambient occlusion, so not including their inputs. [(765145)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-occlusion-breaks-if-alpha-is-dependent-to-another-uv-slash-texture-set)
*   Shaders: Surface shaders with directional lightmaps and light-prepass now use the normals from the camera normals texture for lighting. [(765161)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/legacy-shader-plus-legacy-rendering-path-plus-lightmaps-equals-no-normal-maps)
*   Shaders: Upgrading a shader with a dx11 \[annotation\] at the start of the file now doesn't crash. [(766992)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/geometry-shader-crashes-on-editor-upgrade-upgrading-syntax)
*   Shadows: Fixed directional light shadows not working properly with some non-standard projection matrices. (668520)
*   Shadows: Fixed shadow pancaking for Directional shadows (800737)
*   Shadows: Semitransparent shadow casters now take fresnel transparency into account better (667609)
*   SpeedTree: Fixed crash when selecting billboard while the original spm asset is deleted. [(768057)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/billboard-lod-unity-crashes-when-picking-deleted-speedtree-billboard-lod-level)
*   SpeedTree: Fixed incorrect detail blending at branch seams.
*   Standalone: Fixed invalid linear rendering check while using batch mode -batchmode -nographics [(832083)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standalone-your-gpu-null-device-or-driver-doesnt-support-linear-rendering-error-with-batchmode-nographics)
*   Substance: Fixed corner cases of outputs not being impacted by any input not being generated
*   Substance: Fixed crash when selecting a ProceduralMaterial after switching build platform. [(820301)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-after-selecting-a-substance-material-once-build-platform-is-switched)
*   Substance: Fixed occasional ProceduralMaterial asset import crash. [(822217)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-import-crash-uninit-move-unsigned-char-star-ptr64)
*   Substance: Fixed SubstanceImporter.ExportBitmaps generated file names.
*   Terrain: Fixed a crash when the asset of trees painted on the terrain is deleted from the project. [(770290)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-editor-crashes-when-folder-with-terrain-data-deleted)
*   Terrain: Fixed an issue where modifying terrain settings in the Inspector didn't properly dirty the scene and might cause potential data loss. [(774962)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-made-to-terrain-settings-dont-mark-scene-as-dirty)
*   Terrain: Fixed an issue where terrain could be selected in Scene View even if its layer is locked. [(795496)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-can-be-selected-even-if-picking-in-layer-is-disabled)
*   Terrain: Fixed asserts when rendering a terrain of zero size. [(832184)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scriptingapi-editor-hangs-and-aabb-errors-spammed-in-the-console-after-passing-zero-value-to-terraindata-dot-size)
*   Terrain: Fixed crash triggered when neighboring terrain resolutions didn't match. Now neighboring will be disabled and a warning message will be printed. [(821794)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/entering-play-mode-crashes-at-terrainrenderer-enforcelodtransitions)
*   Terrain: Fixed crash when loading corrupted terrain data. [(757741)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-splatdatabase-recalculatebasemap-when-opening-scene-with-terrain)
*   Terrain: Fixed incorrect scaling of billboards when trees are rescaled using SetTreeInstance. [(849011)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/billboard-api-tree-billboard-scale-is-not-updated-correctly-when-calling-it-in-update-method)
*   Terrain: If the supplied argument is out of range, TerrainData.heightmapResolution, SetDetailResolution(), alphamapResolution and baseMapResolution now prints warning message into the console instead of crashing or silently clamping the value. [(771032)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-calling-various-methods-on-terraindata-with-boundary-values)
*   Terrain: WindZone component now can be reset. [(775690)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windzone-reset-does-not-restore-original-values-of-wind-zone-component)
*   tvOS: Enable game controller in tvOS on-screen keyboard. [(776446)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-native-input-fields-cant-be-used-with-a-gamepad)
*   tvOS: Fix game center score reporting due to incorrect API check [(755395)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-social-dot-reportscore-callback-is-never-executed-after-reporting-several-times-to-same-leaderboard)
*   tvOS: Fixed UI to correctly activate tvOS keyboard. (747529)
*   UI: Fixed ArgumentOutOfRange exception sometimes being thrown when editing InputField on mobile. [(762080)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-wsa-wp81-deleting-text-from-input-field-throws-argumentoutofrange-exception)
*   UI: Fixed buffers not being copied to threads causing the incorrect shader properties to be used and UI flickering to occur. [(780185)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-rendertexture-flickering-ui-and-randomly-changing-sprites-when-enabling-slash-disabling-image-in-a-camera-space)
*   UI: Fixed crash in RectTransform, triggered because it would send messages on the loading thread. [(824011)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-is-permanently-corrupted-after-copying-canvas-element)
*   UI: Fixed dropdown options not being selectable when outside of scrollview. [(755377)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/imgui-impossible-to-select-dropdown-option-when-it-is-outside-scrollview)
*   UI: Fixed issue where Drowpdown List is added to the GraphicRegistry when being destroyed.
*   UI: Fixed RectMask2D clipping incorrectly when nested canvases are present [(782957)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-element-from-scroll-view-are-invisible-when-theyre-masked-with-rectmask2d-and-sub-canvases)
*   UI: Fixed ui placeholder not appearing when input field is selected and the field is empty.
*   UI: Multiple display support is fixed and has been re-enabled. [(741751)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-canvas-elements-are-placed-incorrectly-when-setting-non-native-resolution-in-standalone-build)
*   UI: Stopped raycast from traversing up the hierarchy when a canvas with override sorting is encountered. [(755377)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/imgui-impossible-to-select-dropdown-option-when-it-is-outside-scrollview)
*   UnityWebRequest: Fixed case of exception being thrown when loading cached content. (822698)
*   VisualStudio: Fix crash when opening VisualStudio + improve VS startup performance [(769777)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-at-haverunningvsproopenfile-when-opening-vs-via-console-double-click-when-the-source-is-not-available)
*   VR: Fixed crash when VR Support is enabled but no actual device drivers could be loaded.
*   VR: Fixed memory leak caused by stereo cameras still culling while not rendering. (824508)
*   VR: Fixed rendering issues when using the global fog standard asset in VR. (815914)
*   VR: Using Deferred Rendering + MSAA + Image Effect - blur, renders black screen (713551)
*   VR: \[VR\] Graphics.DrawTexture places image at incorrect screen location when VR enabled (696245)
*   WebGL: Adjust the mouse wheel scale to match other platforms better [(793261)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-scroll-wheel-is-more-sensitive-than-in-editor-or-windows-standalone)
*   WebGL: Always import WebGL audio at 44.1kHz, as Web Audio will resample it anyways, and timing is incorrect otherwise [(781544)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-audio-setting-audiosource-dot-time-gives-different-results-in-editor-and-in-webgl-builds)
*   WebGL: Avoid input axes getting stuck if WebGL loses focus [(797338)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-input-dot-getkey-gets-stuck-when-changing-focus)
*   WebGL: Catch exception thrown in Application.Eval statements [(690762)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-application-dot-externalcall-throws-exception-if-called-function-is-missing)
*   WebGL: Fix "getProcAddress" errors in Chrome console [(783786)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-chrome-errors-thrown-on-content-load-bad-name-in-getprocaddress)
*   WebGL: Fix anisotropic filtering in Safari [(778027)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/safari-texture-error-with-9-slicing)
*   WebGL: Fix API deprecation warnings about MediaStreamTrack and mozGetUserMedia APIs
*   WebGL: Fix AudioClip.PlayScheduled and SetScheduledEndTime not working in Safari [(749303)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-playscheduled-and-setscheduledendtime-have-no-effect-clip-just-plays)
*   WebGL: Fix build errors when using WebGL Templates with files marked as read-only [(755195)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-read-only-template-file-stops-build)
*   WebGL: Fix building with use pre-built unity engine option (838754)
*   WebGL: Fix error when clicking fullscreen button before content is initialiazed [(775373)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-game-crashes-when-trying-to-enter-fullscreen-before-it-finished-loading)
*   WebGL: Fix GUITexture NPOT scaling [(766316)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-guiskin-corrupts-ui-elements-in-build)
*   WebGL: Fix to correctly clamp the max value for WebGL Heap size to 2032.
*   WebGL: Fix unnecessary waste of memory by keeping an unneeded copy of the player code at startup.
*   WebGL: Fix use of Min and Max shader blend modes [(781565)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-errors-in-webgl-build-invalid-enum-blendequationseparate-invalid-mode)
*   WebGL: Fix WebGL warning messages in WebGL 2.0 [(782235)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl2-dot-0-error-spam-on-running-build-glgetintegerv-gl-invalid-enum)
*   WebGL: Fixed asset bundles memory usage issue at loading time, which would prevent some content from running on 32-bit browsers. [(812567, 829765)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-the-browser-could-not-allocate-enough-memory-for-the-webgl-content)
*   WebGL: Fixed AudioSource.time to report correct values
*   WebGL: Fixed case of cursor staying invisible after being unlocked.
*   WebGL: Fixed case of international keyboard input being processed incorrectly on Firefox. [(822669)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/all-keys-with-input-dot-getbutton-return-true-when-language-specific-letters-are-pressed-in-webgl)
*   WebGL: Fixed case of ReadPixels method not working on floating point render textures. [(827435)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/readpixels-method-is-not-working-with-custom-shader-when-texture2d-color-format-is-set-to-argb-float-on-webgl)
*   WebGL: Fixed copy/cut/paste for InputField and TextField on Mac [(762928)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-plus-osx-copy-and-paste-for-input-broken)
*   WebGL: Fixed exception on Safari when using PlayScheduled and SetScheduledEndTime [(749303)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-playscheduled-and-setscheduledendtime-have-no-effect-clip-just-plays)
*   WebGL: Fixed line spacing in fonts generated using CreateDynamicFontFromOSFont. [(819964)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dynamically-created-ui-dot-scrollview-with-multiline-texts-are-rendered-in-one-line)
*   WebGL: Fixed profiler crash [(834578)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/win-profiler-stops-after-a-few-seconds)
*   WebGL: Fixed progress reporting work for WebRequest (previously it did not move from 0). [(775178)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-unitywebrequest-dot-downloadprogress-always-returns-0-in-webgl)
*   WebGL: Fixed rendering plugin support: previously interface functions for native render plugins were not getting called. [(818729)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-build-does-not-call-interface-functions-for-native-render-plugins)
*   WebGL: Fixed SimpleWebServer bug causing 'Uncaught incorrect header check' [(770266)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-build-fails-with-uncaught-incorrect-header-check-on-chrome)
*   WebGL: Make it possible to build WebGL players from non-unicode path names on windows [(627976)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/if-project-path-contains-letters-aceeisuuz-webgl-doesnt-build)
*   WebGL: Make it possible to whitelist UnityEngine.SpeedTreeWindAsset in link.xml [(773309)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/speedtreewindasset-class-will-be-stripped-even-if-it-is-preserved)
*   WebGL: Removed unused code in default WebGL template [(789899)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/default-templates-have-hidden-elements)
*   WebGL: Set up editor to correctly emulate WebGL Graphics capabilities when editor mode is set to WebGL [(790287)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/computeshader-webgl-console-error-when-try-to-dispatch-compute-shader-under-webgl)
*   Windows: Fix to prevent the application from crashing if window is resized with zero width or height.
*   Windows: System resolution or orientation changes are now detected and responded to accordingly (so no longer deform full screen player). [(825230)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-display-resolution-on-windows-standalone-deforms-full-screen-player)
*   Windows: SystemInfo.deviceModel will now report model name and manufacturer [(784466)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standalone-slash-editor-systeminfo-dot-devicemodel-returns-processor-type-instead-of-a-model)
*   Windows Editor: Fix editor crash when locing cursor from constructor [(765466)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-cursorlockstate-in-a-static-initializer-crashes-at-screenmanagerwin-setlockcursor)
*   Windows Editor: Screen.resolutions will now return all available resolutions when used inside the Windows Editor. (611660)
*   Windows Standalone: Custom image will be correctly shown in screen selector dialog when building to directory with non-english letters [(801951)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/splash-image-custom-splash-image-does-not-appear-in-windows-build-when-the-projects-name-includes-specific-characters)
*   Windows Standalone: Launcher will correctly display unicode symbols for input bindings. [(507878)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/built-project-doesnt-show-correctly-encoded-japanese-letters-in-player-settings-wizard)
*   Windows Standalone: P/Invoke will work correctly with native libraries which reference other native libraries, if those libraries are located in the same directory. [(776918)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-pinvoke-into-a-dll-which-depends-on-another-plugin-on-the-windows-standalone-player)
*   Windows Store: Accelerometer Events will be correctly returned on ARM platforms [(802112)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-wp8-dot-1-accelerometer-events-do-not-work)
*   Windows Store: Build & Run will correctly work with Universal Windows 10 Apps. [(771326)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-build-and-run-on-option-is-greyed-out-selecting-universal-10-sdk)
*   Windows Store: Correctly generate Visual Studio namespace when product name contains ' symbol. an underscore will be used instead [(754102)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-product-name-containing-an-apostrophe-sign-causes-issues-in-app-dot-xaml-and-mainpage-dot-xaml-files)
*   Windows Store: Disable Generate C# option when scripting backend is set to il2cpp (775344)
*   Windows Store: Do not allow mixing JPEG and PNG files for different scales of the same image type (tiles, splash screens etc.) (775592)
*   Windows Store: Files located in Assets\\Resources won't end up in generated Assembly-CSharp-firstpass project, but will be correctly placed in Assembly-CSharp project [(777741)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-cannot-deploy-project-with-c-number-projects-if-scripts-are-located-in-resources-folder)
*   Windows Store: Fix a bug where mouse scrollwheel was returning inverted values [(813683)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-mouse-scrollwheel-direction-reversed-in-wsa-slash-uwp-apps)
*   Windows Store: Fix AssemblyConverter failure when return type that is generic parameter [(762780)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-assembly-converter-failure)
*   Windows Store: Fix Build & Run when Product Name has characters with diacritis (776483)
*   Windows Store: Fix build failure using .NET 4 plugins and Mono compiler (compilation override None) (750001)
*   Windows Store: Fix certain UnityEngine.Networking features not working when using "Unity C# projects" [(774164)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-syncvar-not-synchronizing-player-slash-client-on-uwp-platform)
*   Windows Store: Fix crash when loading C# type from plugin which was not included in the final build. [(765893)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-specific-plugin-causes-a-crash-when-launching-application)
*   Windows Store: Fix crash when UWP application throws exception through managed/native boundary [(775702)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-crash-with-net-native-when-exception-is-thrown-from-native-code)
*   Windows Store: Fix DisconnectedException while pluging/unplugin joystick from usb multiple times [(778842)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-project-crashes-when-legacy-non-xinput-usb-joystick-is-repeatedly-plugged-in-and-unplugged-from-pc)
*   Windows Store: Fix issue where user couldn't enter @ symbol with touch screen keyboard when spanish language is selected. [(792589)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-wp8-dot-1-at-symbol-cant-be-entered-into-text-field-when-using-spanish-keyboard)
*   Windows Store: Fix jpeg visual asset (tiles, splash screens etc.) support [(769109)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-when-building-for-windows-store-with-universal-10-sdk-when-splash-screen-is-set)
*   Windows Store: Fix occasional build failures when using UnityEngine.Networking API and .NET Core [(763173)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-networkmanager-inheritance-issue)
*   Windows Store: Fix Screen.orientation reporting Autorotation on start up (787522)
*   Windows Store: Fix System.FormatException in MainPage.xaml.cs [(802990)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-wp10-exception-thrown-system-dot-formatexception-in-mscorlib-dot-ni-dot-dll)
*   Windows Store: Fix Tab key duplicating in XAML controls (775931)
*   Windows Store: Fixed $(OutDir) and $(IntDir) paths for generated il2pp Visual Studio solutions which prevented appx bundles to build correctly [(774295)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-il2cpp-build-incorrectly-sets-output-directory-and-intermediate-directory-paths)
*   Windows Store: Fixed antialising when calling Screen.SetResolution on Universal Windows 10 Apps
*   Windows Store: Fixed cases where the Editor profiler would sometimes fail to connect to an application running on a remote device (e.g. Windows Phone). (833525)
*   Windows Store: Keep extended splash screen rotated to the same angle as system one on Windows Phone 8.1 [(770092)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-cant-disable-portrait-orientation-splash-screen-in-windows-phone-8-dot-1-universal-app)
*   Windows Store: Load first scene after Unity splash screen is over [(767548)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-wsa-scene-starts-with-unity-splash-screen)
*   Windows Store: RuntimeInitializeOnLoadMethod will work correctly [(777878)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-preserve-attribute-runtimeinitializeonloadmethod-is-not-invoked-after-scene-is-loaded)
*   Windows Store: Screen.currentResolution will return desktop resolution when application is in windowed mode. [(771541)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-screen-dot-currentresolution-returns-window-screen-resolution-instead-of-desktop-resolution)
*   Windows Store: Screen.Resolution(, , true) will no longer ignore width and height, so you can set your desired resolution on Universal Windows 10 Apps.
*   Windows Store: Screen.SetResolution will correctly work on Windows Phone 10 [(773877)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-nothing-happens-when-calling-screen-dot-setresolution)
*   Windows Store: SystemInfo.deviceType now returns Console when application runs on Xbox One, and returns Handheld when it runs on IoT devices (e.g. Raspberry Pi). (827089)
*   Windows Store: SystemInfo.supportsVibration will return correct value on Windows Phone 8.1/10.0 [(804156)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-wp10-systeminfo-dot-supportsvibration-return-incorrect-value)
*   Windows Store: Unity won't steal key events when another XAML element (for ex., TextBox) is focused
*   Windows Store: UnityEvent.Remove listener will work correctly when .Net Native is enabled. Previously events were not removed as expected. [(827748)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-unityevent-dot-removelistener-doesnt-remove-event-on-builds-with-net-scripting-backend)
*   Windows Store: When playing video using Handheld.PlayFullScreenMovie, you'll be able to stop using Escape or Back button. [(803250)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-fullscreen-movie-player-has-no-exit-button)
*   Windows Store: Windows Store: Mouses and touches will work correctly after locking/unlocking the screen. [(768929)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-wsa-locking-slash-unlocking-screen-causes-application-ignore-mouse-input-enabling-iis-makes-input-work)
*   Windows Store: WWW.responseHeaders will return STATUS header the same way as other platforms [(801998)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/www-dot-responseheaders-drop-some-http-headers-on-wsa)
*   WindowsStandalone: Application launched with high integrity level will no longer act as low integrity application. [(818601)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bug-since-5-dot-4-there-is-no-longer-an-output-log-dot-txt-on-windows-slash-standalone)
*   WindowsStore: Microsoft .NET compiler will always ouput errors in english ignoring OS region settings, the same way as Mono compiler. [(755238)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editors-console-unable-to-display-unicode-characters)