### Known Issues in 2023.2.0a6

- Editor: Fix ProjectBrowser delete confirmation dialog not showing up
    (UUM-29454)    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a7.*

- Editor: Fixed a memory leak that happened when using tooltips.
    (UUM-27817)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a4.*    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a7.*

- Editor: Fixed jumping of intensity slider values in Color Picker HDR
    (UUM-27978)    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a7.*

- Editor: fixing potential GPU cbuffer out of bound read with BRG
    (UUM-29505)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a7.*

- FrameDebugger: Frame Debugger VRAM memory leak
    ([UUM-28065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-vram-memory-leak))

- GI: Fix Editor crash inside OpenCL when baking with GPU lightmapper using an AMD RX6800 GPU.
    ([UUM-29278](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-inside-opencl-when-uploading-transmission-data))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a5.*    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a7.*

- Metal: [iOS] Framerate drops below 120fps when tapping the screen in a near-empty scene on iPhone 13 Pro
    ([UUM-5944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-target-fps-is-ignored-on-iphone-13-pro))

- Progressive Lightmapper: On-demand bakes do not match the scene if the latter is changed mid-bake
    ([UUM-29786](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/on-demand-bakes-do-not-match-the-scene-if-the-latter-is-changed-mid-bake))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed caret repositioning while renaming in UI Builder
    ([UUM-27169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-cant-reposition-caret-or-select-text-with-cursor-when-renaming-element))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a6.*    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a7.*

- Web Platform: "wasm-ld.exe" is not terminated when canceling a WebGL Build during the "Linking build.js (wasm)" phase
    ([UUM-20797](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wasm-ld-dot-exe-is-not-terminated-when-canceling-a-webgl-build-during-the-linking-build-dot-js-wasm-phase))



### New 2023.2.0a6 Entries since 2023.2.0a5

#### Features

- HDRP: Added Scalable Temporal Post-Processing Upscaling Filter

- SpeedTree: Enabled HDRP/Nature/SpeedTree8.shadergraph to now use its Subsurface Map for the Transmission Mask node to remove the unintended light transmission from tree barks and twigs. This also fixes the overly bright billboard lighting not matching the 3D geometry's lighting.



#### Improvements

- Apple TV: tvOS now uses launch screen storyboard

- Editor: Added process ID information to the Attach debugger dialog in the Editor.

- GI: Removed the Preview Label on GPU lightmapper.

- IL2CPP: Enabled building with .NET NativeAOT, which reduces the Il2cpp.exe runtime by ~20% on Windows.

- IL2CPP: Enabled UnityLinker to now use Server GC, which reduces its runtime by 15%-20%.

- iOS: iOS/tvOS launch screen now is shown only by OS, and is not shown again by Unity itself

- Package Manager: Added analytics for action with deprecated packages or versions.
    (UUM-28089)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a5.*

- Package Manager: Added support for specifying optional path and revision to Git URLs in SCP format.

- Player: Added a `-native-leak-detection <mode>` command line argument to the Unity Editor and standalone Players. `<mode>` can be **Disabled**, **Enabled**, or **EnabledWithStackTrace**. Stack Traces are only available in the Unity Editor and development builds.

- Windows: Enabled the generated projects to now target the Visual Studio version you open them in instead of Visual Studio 2015, when you use the **Generation Visual Studio Solution** option to build for Windows.



#### API Changes

- Animation: Added: ClearKeys and CopyFromAPI in AnimationCurve.
    ([UUM-20456](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-volume-curves-have-impact-even-if-they-are-disabled), [UUM-20458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-revert-property-doesnt-work-on-curves))

- SRP Core: Added: Common C\# &amp; Shader Code for Scalable Temporal Post-Processing Upscaler

- UI Toolkit: Added: VisualElement methods HandleEventBubbleUp and HandleEventTrickleDown.<br>
    Added FocusController method IgnoreEvent.

- UI Toolkit: Obsoleted: EventBase method PreventDefault. Not upgradable automatically.

- UI Toolkit: Obsoleted: PropagationPhase values AtTarget, DefaultAction, and DefaultActionAtTarget. Not upgradabe automatically.

- UI Toolkit: Obsoleted: VisualElement methods ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget. Not upgradable automatically.



#### Changes

- Editor: Added missing padding between HelpBox icon and text contents.

- GI: Moved the **Recalculate Environment Lighting** setting to **Project Settings** &gt; **Editor**. This setting was previously in the **Lighting Window** &gt; **Workflow**.

- HDRP: Changed references of Diffusion Profile in the HDRP Wizard check by the ones in the HDRP Package

- HDRP: Modified Dynamic Resolution System to Use Fixed Scaling Steps

- Package Manager: Renamed the **My Assets** Web3 category filter in the Package Manager Window to **Decentralization**.

- UI Toolkit: Changed Event propagation rules for ExecuteDefaultAction, ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget, and PreventDefault:<br>
    - Calling StopPropagation\(\) on an event will now also prevent ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget from being called.<br>
    - Calling PreventDefault\(\) will behave like calling both StopPropagation and focusController.IgnoreEvent, so it will also stop execution of the registered callbacks further down the propagation path.<br>
    - Both ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget are now executed in-between registered callbacks during the BubbleUp phase, immediately before any callback on the current target.<br>
    - All standard control event handling was moved to registered event callbacks or HandleEventBubbleUp overrides, and can be prevented by calling StopPropagation during the TrickleDown phase. This includes triggering the Contextual menu. The exception to this rule is behavior that's part of an event's PostDispatch method, which includes switching focus on Pointer down or navigation.<br>
    - It is strongly recommended to replace ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget overrides for a HandleEventBubbleUp override instead, and PreventDefault for StopPropagation.

- UI Toolkit: Changed the Event propagation rules for composite roots, making them behave more similarly to regular elements.

- UI Toolkit: Changed the Event propagation rules for Mouse compatibility events:<br>
    - Mouse compatibility events are now dispatched alongside the Pointer event associated with them, immediately following them during each step of the TrickleDown and BubbleUp propagation phases.<br>
    - Calling StopPropagation on either the pointer event or its associated compatibility mouse event will now stop the propagation of both events after the current propagation step is completed.

- UI Toolkit: Changed the number of FocusEvents and BlurEvents sent when changing a focused element if the target has at least one composite root parent.

- XR: Updated the Oculus XR Plugin package version to 3.2.3.



#### Fixes

- 2D: Enabled generating a default Sprite rect for textures that are too small to be tesselated.

- 2D: Enabled showing the Apply/revert dialog to users if there are data changes in Sprite Editor Window before domain reload.
    ([UUM-26175](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-editor-unsaved-changes-get-reverted-when-script-recompilation-finishes))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- 2D: Fixed  null exception when a user creates a new Tile Palette by dragging and dropping an asset onto an empty Tile Palette window and cancels creating the new Tile Palette.
    ([UUM-27809](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-cancelling-tile-palette-creation-dialogue))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a4.*

- 2D: Fixed the Tile Palette repainting a position when performing a mouse drag at the same position.
    (UUM-27588)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a4.*

- Android: Disabled `--fastdeploy` during application installation as it works incorrectly in some cases.
    ([UUM-28376](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-is-not-updated-on-device-when-its-signed-with-a-different-key))

- Android: Enabled 'AMOTION_EVENT_AXIS_TOUCH_MINOR/AMOTION_EVENT_AXIS_TOUCH_MAJOR' axes for Game Activity to fix `Input.GetTouch.radius` APIs.
    (UUM-28698)

- Android: Fixed the cursor locking when ran under GameActivity.
    (UUM-24988)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Android: Fixed the plugin path resolving for GameActivity.
    (UUM-19908)

- Animation: Fixed the default values for animation curve parameters on Volume Components being shared with the current interpolated value on the volume stack.
    ([UUM-20456](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-volume-curves-have-impact-even-if-they-are-disabled))

- Burst: Replaced the Burst debug domain reload with a different method of informing the debugger clients, which is faster and no longer prone to dangling pointers.
    (UUM-26740)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Core: CullResults.ComputeSpotShadowMatricesAndCullingPrimitives will now output culling planes derived from the projection matrix

- Core: Fixed a regression where the maximum number of job worker threads was reduced to 64 instead of 128.
    (UUM-25377, UUM-28400)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a6.*

- Editor: Added support for property paths with brackets.
    (DOTSE-2003)

- Editor: Disabled an unstable test on Mac.
    (UUM-26582)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a2.*

- Editor: Enabled DefaultFetchLabel to use the actual label value if it exists.
    (DOTSE-1995)

- Editor: Enabled detecting asset corruption before uploading to an accelerator.
    ([UUM-26502](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-corruption-when-using-the-accelerator-cache-server))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Enabled GameObjects from the 31st layer to be rendered when `Camera.cullingMask` is set to **Everything**.
    ([UUM-2698](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-from-31st-layer-are-not-rendered-when-camera-dot-cullingmask-is-set-to-everything))

- Editor: Enabled indexing asset names with a single character.
    ([UUM-17474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-search-window-returns-assets-with-unrelated-names-when-using-t-with-a-specific-name-in-a-query))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Enabled SceneTemplate help URL to be versioned.
    ([UUM-15355](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/documentation-page-is-not-displayed-for-the-user-when-he-clicks-on-open-reference-for-scenetemplateasset-question-mark))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Enabled Search help to be properly versioned.
    ([UUM-26675](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-2023-dot-1-search-documentation-is-outdated))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Enabled the Light Probe Group Deringing setting to be properly saved.
    ([UUM-28040](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-remove-ringing-checkbox-on-the-light-probe-group-component-doesnt-work))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a5.*

- Editor: Enabled the MaterialProperty Range to display with a slider and an editable TextField.
    (DOTSE-2008)

- Editor: Fix Timeline performance problem when previewing animated prefab instances
    ([UUM-28636](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-performance-problem-when-previewing-animated-prefab-instances))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a6.*

- Editor: Fixed a freeze when selecting multiple assets with different Scripted Importers.
    ([UUM-27216](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freezes-when-selecting-multiple-assets-with-different-scripted-importers))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a2.*

- Editor: Fixed an error when assigning a preset that has been removed \(added validation for property assignation\).
    ([UUM-26279](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/console-displays-error-objectdisposedexception-serializedproperty-m-defaultpresets-dot-array-dot-data-0-dot-second-dot-array-dot-data-0-dot-m-preset-has-disappeared-when-user-removes-preset-from-default-component-view-and-closes-select-preset-window))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Fixed an issue with animators where the root bone would be reset for humanoid in edge cases with the pose playable.
    ([UUM-26509](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animated-model-translated-down-when-interrupting-a-transition))

- Editor: Fixed domain reload dialog spawning on top of code editor while Unity editor is out of focus.
    ([UUM-8328](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-domain-reload-progress-dialog-is-spawned-on-top-of-ide-when-the-editor-is-in-the-background-and-script-changes-are-made))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Fixed issue when importing FBX files where memory usage grows exponentially with the amount of clips present in the file.
    ([UUM-22047](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-not-responding-and-uses-up-all-the-memory-while-opening-project))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Fixed the empty array access while importing a mesh that has no UVs when **Generate Lighmap UVs** is enabled.
    (UUM-23198)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Fixed the Scene template Help icon by adding the version number in the URL.
    ([UUM-15399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wrong-documentation-page-is-displayed-for-the-scene-template-pipeline-help-icon))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Fixes several issues with importing/building projects in terms of memory on DX12 backend.
    ([UUM-20186](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gfxtaskexecutord3d12-addrequiredresourcebarriers-when-opening-the-project))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Editor: Improved progress reporting for **Generate Lighting**.
    ([UUM-28515](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightbaker-progress-reporting-is-broken))

- Graphics: Enabled BatchCullingContext to now only contain receiver planes for lights where `useViewFrustumForShadowCasterCull` is true \(the default\).

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when the swapchain creation would fail if the  window is not ready at an engine boot.<br>
    This fix enables using the offscreen swapchain while loading finishes and creates a real swapchain.

- Graphics: Fixed the color space switch not applying in Vulkan.
    ([UUM-27939](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-display-transfer-function-not-applied-correctly-when-switching-color-space-from-gamma-to-linear))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a5.*

- Graphics: Fixed the missing Lens Flare permutation.
    (UUM-19982)

- Graphics Tests: Updated the bokken images for the graphics tests.

- HDRP: Fixed an issue that placed an upper limit on the total number of segments drawn by the High Quality Line Renderer.

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where High Quality Line instances were not being drawn in back to front order.

- HDRP: Fixed an issue with specifying how much memory gets allocated for High Quality Line Rendering.

- HDRP: Fixed OSX Support for High Quality Lines.

- HDRP: Fixed several issues for High Quality Line Rendering that were discovered on the "Enemies" production.

- IL2CPP: Fixed a bug where IL2CPP returns an invalid pointer on P/Invoke methods that returns a non-blittable struct by reference.
    ([UUM-20790](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-returns-a-pointer-to-the-stack-value-which-points-to-invalid-memory-when-generating-code))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a crash when the memory profiler is enabled.
    ([UUM-18685](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-crashes-on-il2cpp-vm-class-getvirtualmethod-when-building-and-running-a-project-using-il2cpp-scripting-backend))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a potential .cpp file name collision when two assembly names differ only by a number at the end of their name.
    ([UUM-27951](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-can-fail-when-2-assembly-definitions-have-similar-names))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a race condition when creating generic class metadata.
    (UUM-26516)

- IL2CPP: Fixed an intermittent crash in the thread pool implementation when the socket no longer exists during a HTTP request.
    (UUM-21671)

- IL2CPP: Fixed the incorrect custom attribute lookup on a field derived in a base class from a different assembly.
    ([UUM-27593](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-throws-errors-when-using-custom-attributes))

- IL2CPP: Fixed the Mac build error from multiple identically named files in the same directory during a build.
    ([UUM-26386](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-macos-build-fails-with-system-dot-argumentexception-when-building-with-il2cpp-stack-trace-information-with-line-numbers))

- IL2CPP: Reverted **Skip Metadata Initialization for Well known Types** to fix performance regression.
    (UUM-25793)

- IMGUI: Fixed a NullReferenceException when using a `GUILayout.TextField`.
    ([UUM-27567](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-results-in-a-nullreferenceexception-when-passing-null-to-guilayout-dot-textfield))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a3.*

- IMGUI: Fixes IMGUI decorator height not adjusted in inspector
    (UUM-28739)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a6.*

- iOS: Fixed a bug with the player settings "Force iOS Speakers when Recording". It wasn't working properly when "Mute Other Audio Sources" and "Prepare iOS for Recording" were both disabled. It was also not working correctly with wired headphones, where the setting should have no effect.
    ([UUM-19505](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-if-force-ios-speakers-when-recording-setting-is-enabled-audio-is-playing-through-the-device-speakers-when-bluetooth-headphones-are-connected))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Mono: Added `get_win32_restore_stack` implementation for ARM64 in Mono.
    (UUM-20941)

- Mono: Fixed the Mono default interface methods with protected virtual class methods.
    ([UUM-22228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mono-calls-wrong-methods-when-using-default-interface-methods))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where a project with a large number of git dependencies would have resolution errors with error code 429 \(Too Many Requests\). The number of concurrent requests is six by default, but it can be changed by setting the `UPM_GIT_MAX_CONCURRENT_COMMANDS` environment variable.
    ([UUM-6049](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rpc-failed-http-429-curl-22-the-requested-url-returned-error-429-error-message-appears-when-executing-git-commands))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue which prevented starting UPM when a `package.json` file containing `"type": "module"` was present on any of the ancestor directories.
    (UUM-18512)

- Particles: Fixed the race condition when scheduling C\# particle jobs.

- Physics: Enabled cloth objects intercollisions to work properly when turned on in Project Settings.
    ([UUM-12987](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cloth-intercollision-does-not-work-when-two-gameobjects-with-cloth-collide))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a6.*

- Physics: Fixed a crash while entering Play Mode with a cloth component that hasn't been edited.
    ([UUM-16091](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-clothscene-preparescene-when-entering-play-mode))

- Player: Enabled Native Leak Detection to now work in Player builds. Previously, it would not report upon ProcessExit.

- Scene/Game View: Fixed a warning when adding a new Scene View tab in a 2D template project.
    (UUM-28978)

- SRP Core: Fixed the Revert Property for animation curves on Volume Components so it now works correctly.
    ([UUM-20458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-revert-property-doesnt-work-on-curves))

- Terrain: Fixed an Editor crash when importing an out of date terrain asset with deprecated splats.
    (UUM-24843)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a5.*

- TextCore: Enabled `FontAsset.HasCharacter` to now support UTF32.
    ([UUM-22663](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-tmp-fontasset-dot-hascharacter-overloads-are-missing-utf32-support))

- UI Elements: Adding a new PersistentCall to a UnityEvent is added with the default value UnityEventCallState.RuntimeOnly instead of UnityEventCallState.Off
    ([UUM-27561](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unityevent-listener-execution-state-is-off-by-default))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a3.*

- UI Toolkit: Enabled users to edit a multiline textfield's value directly in the UI Builder Inspector.
    (UUM-15988)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- UI Toolkit: Fix error thrown when pressing the add button with a list of value types.
    ([UUM-23208](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentnullexception-thrown-when-clicking-the-add-footer-button-of-listview-which-itemssource-is-a-list-of-value-type))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an exception thrown when the user tries to enter a negative value for the Fixed Item Height attribute of a ListView, TreeView, etc.
    ([UUM-11324](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-value-needs-to-be-positive-for-virtualization-is-thrown-when-adjusting-fixed-item-height-into-the-negatives))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed error thrown when removing elements from the middle of a list.
    ([UUM-26290](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-is-thrown-when-removing-an-element-from-a-list-in-a-scriptableobject-in-the-inspector-window))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed issues where overwriting makeItem failed when used with bindings and ListView wouldn't refresh when itemsSource was set last.
    (UUM-24689)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed ListView's reorderable value when bound to a SerializedProperty.
    ([UUM-27687](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/reordering-handles-dont-appear-in-the-listview))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed reordering handles styling when used with items smaller than the default height.
    ([UUM-26773](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uitoolkit-listview-incorrectly-draws-handles-when-the-fixeditemheight-is-less-than-22))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a2.*

- Universal RP: Changed the ScreenSpace Decals sorting criteria to the same criteria used by DBuffer Decals.
    ([UUM-28562](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sorting-of-screen-space-decals-is-camera-position-dependent))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where **Write Rendering Layers** was sometimes incorrectly enabled in Deferred Rendering.

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where alpha clipping was not working with Unlit shader's DepthNormal pass.
    ([UUM-20888](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-the-default-unlit-material-doesnt-clip-depth-in-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where the Depth Priming check was accidentally removed, which caused CI failures.

- Universal RP: Fixed the additional light shadows and soft shadows missing on transparent lit objects when using the deferred renderer.
    ([UUM-20792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lights-shine-through-opaque-objects-when-the-rendering-path-option-is-set-to-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed the missing LOD-CrossFade and Alpha-Clip support in URP's motion vector pass.
    (UUM-25473)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- Universal RP: Fixed the offscreen depth pass in the RenderGraph path.
    (UUM-28912)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a6.*

- Universal RP: Prevent negative color and NaN write to TAA history.
    ([UUM-26709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/temporal-anti-aliasing-taa-produces-severe-artifacting-when-quality-set-to-very-high))

- URP: Fixed the HDR output so it is no longer overly saturated because of a Color Grading variant not included in builds.
    (UUM-27503)

- VFX Graph: Fixed a crash when removing VFXRenderer from a disabled GameObject.
    ([UUM-16391](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-memorymanager-deallocate-when-reimporting-vfx-graph-asset))

- VFX Graph: Fixed unexpected per frame garbage while using Timeline.
    (UUM-26997)

- Video: Fixed crashes when changing the source URL on some specific devices.
    ([UUM-29011](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-application-crashes-when-changing-the-source-url-of-a-video-player-in-android-v2))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a6.*

- WebGL: Fixed the playback of MP3 audio files loaded via UnityWebRequest on Safari.
    ([UUM-25389](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-audio-source-has-no-sound-if-the-audio-clip-was-downloaded-via-webrequest-on-ios-devices))




#### New 2023.2.0a6 Package Changes since 2023.2.0a5

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.addressables: [1.21.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.addressables@1.21//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [1.21.8](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.addressables@1.21//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.scriptablebuildpipeline: [1.21.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.scriptablebuildpipeline@1.21//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [1.21.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.scriptablebuildpipeline@1.21//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.core: [1.7.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.core@1.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [1.8.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.core@1.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.oculus: [3.2.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@3.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [3.2.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@3.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

### Preview of Final 2023.2.0a6 Release Notes

#### Features

- Editor: Added an option to Scene View preferences to only refresh the Scene view when the Editor is in focus.

- Editor: Added basic Emoji support.

- Editor: Added basic OpenType font feature support. Currently, only kerning is enabled.

- Editor: Added the ability to bind the keyboard shortcut for making transitions between Animator states.

- Graphics: Added rendererPriority support for BatchRendererGroup.

- Graphics: Added `BatchCullingContext.cullingFlags` to specify whether lightmapped shadow casters should be culled.

- HDRP: Added a visualization of async compute passes and their synchronization points to the Render Graph Viewer.

- HDRP: Added Scalable Temporal Post-Processing Upscaling Filter

- HDRP: Implemented beer shadow maps for volumetric clouds.

- Package Manager: Added **Services** as an entry in the Package Manager side bar.

- Package Manager: Added a new sidebar with a search field that is specific to sections in the Package Manager.

- Package Manager: Added the ability to manage an imported .unitypackage from the Asset Store in **In Project**.

- Package Manager: Added Web3 as a Filter Category in My Assets.

- Package Manager: Reformatted the top toolbar so that you can now see all applied filters.

- SpeedTree: Enabled HDRP/Nature/SpeedTree8.shadergraph to now use its Subsurface Map for the Transmission Mask node to remove the unintended light transmission from tree barks and twigs. This also fixes the overly bright billboard lighting not matching the 3D geometry's lighting.

- UI Toolkit: Added the Emojis Fallback Support field to TextElements and TextFields to control the ordering of where to search for the glyph in the emoji range \(primary font vs global fallback\).

- Universal RP: Added support for additional directional light cookies.

- Version Control: Added a project option to support tracking packages that exist on disk outside of the project's root folder.

- VFX Graph: Added support for motion vector in URP.

- XR: Added Hololens Automation Support.



#### Improvements

- 2D: Added the shortcut key to the tooltips for the toggles that activate overlays in the Tile Palette window.

- 2D: Enabled the serialization of TileChangeData.

- 2D: Improved the performance of creating a large number of Tile assets with the Tile Palette window.

- 2D: Improved the performance of opening the Tile Palette window when the Tile Palette references a large number of Tile assets.
    (UUM-26849)

- Android: Enabled adding the minimum aspect ratio.

- Animation: Enabled automatic stripping of any leading or trailing whitespace when editing the name of a state machine parameter via the Animator or Animator Parameters windows.

- Animation: Reduced the cost of building muscle clips, which speeds up `Animator.Awake`.

- Animation: Reduced the number of garbage collection allocations when calling `Animator.GetParameter(int index)` and improved its speed.

- Apple TV: tvOS now uses launch screen storyboard

- Burst: Added a Burst AOT setting for the debug information generated for player builds.

- Burst: Added a SIMD smell test to the Burst Inspector, highlighting ARM or x86-64 SIMD instructions which changes depending on whether they work for packed or scalar inputs.

- Burst: Added a toggle to filter **.Generated** jobs from the Burst Inspector target job list.

- Burst: Added selection of line and highlight of selected line and selected lines register usage.

- Burst: Enabled `FunctionPointer<delegate>()::Invoke` usage is now checked and patched to ensure the calling convention is compatible with Burst.

- Documentation: Added Android Project Configuration Manager API documentation.

- Documentation: Added documentation for an API that throws errors for Android Project Configuration Manager.

- Documentation: Improved the Android Project Configuration API documentation.

- Documentation: Improved the documentation for the Android build process order.

- Documentation: Updated Global Illumination documentation to reflect the changes to on demand and auto mode baking.
    (LIGHT-1260)

- Editor: Added a fog fullscreen debug mode to HDRP. This will display the fog that is applied to the opaque geometry in the scene. The fog display can be controlled through the debug exposure.

- Editor: Added line number support for the mixed callstack diagnostic.

- Editor: Added process ID information to the Attach debugger dialog in the Editor.

- Editor: Enabled automatically opening a tab when dragging an object over it.

- Editor: Enabled Leak Detection with stack traces to now group leaks by stack trace, significantly improving the time to report leaks.

- Editor: Exposed the resolution and resolution value of the reflection probe within the HD Light Explorer. When a custom resolution is selected, the resolution value becomes editable.

- Editor: Improved performance for Text in the editor.

- Editor: Improved the camera preview resizing in the scene views and Graph Tool Foundation.

- Editor: Improved the performance of the `Transform.Find()` API, especially when working with large numbers of children.

- Editor: Improved warnings on GPU Module overheads.

- Editor: Reduced the cost of outline rendering, which improves the frame rate of the editor when many objects are selected.

- GI: Added a toggle that lets you quickly identify visible backfaces in the scene when using various scene view modes.

- GI: Added display of timely information in the Editor on lightmaps and probes being baked.

- GI: Added light grid shrinking to GPU lightmapper to improve performance in large scenes with many lights tightly clustered in one corner.

- GI: Changed the Lightmap Parameters dropdown in Lighting Settings to a file picker field.

- GI: Decreased the minimum specification of the GPU lightmapper to 2 GB.

- GI: Improved the performance of the GPU lightmapper when using the Balanced baking profile. This enables memory usage to be more predictable when using larger lightmap sizes.

- GI: Improved the robustness of out of memory handling when baking large scenes on 4GB AMD R9 cards.
    (LIGHT-1261)

- GI: Improved the user experience of light bake progress reporting.

- GI: Improved the UX of BakePipeline post processing.

- GI: Moved the baking device and profile selection to a new section at the bottom of the lighting window.

- GI: Moved the light probe visualization settings to the Scene view gizmo dropdown.

- GI: Removed the Preview Label on GPU lightmapper.

- GI: Restored LightBaker determinism in relation to OpenRL.

- Graphics: Updated the ASTC compressor to version 4.3 to improve compression speed.

- HDRP: Added various optimizations of C\# code.

- HDRP: Decreased the number of Diffusion Profile imported in the HDGlobalSettings Diffusion Profile List when importing the Material Samples.

- HDRP: Improved the sample import system on SRP packages to import dependencies for each sample.

- HDRP: Updated some shaders to support DOTS instancing.

- IL2CPP: Enabled building with .NET NativeAOT, which reduces the Il2cpp.exe runtime by ~20% on Windows.

- IL2CPP: Enabled UnityLinker to now use Server GC, which reduces its runtime by 15%-20%.

- IL2CPP: Updated the error message that appears when the GenericSharingVisitor encounters an instruction it cannot process.

- IMGUI: Enabled IMGUI to now use TextCore to deal with Ellipsis.

- IMGUI: Removed UTF16 conversion for IMGUI on the native side since we now generate text on the managed side.

- iOS: iOS/tvOS launch screen now is shown only by OS, and is not shown again by Unity itself

- Package Manager: Added support for specifying optional path and revision to Git URLs in SCP format.

- Package Manager: Improved the tag UI for git and local packages.

- Particles: Added two new sorting modes for reversed depth.

- Player: Added a `-native-leak-detection <mode>` command line argument to the Unity Editor and standalone Players. `<mode>` can be **Disabled**, **Enabled**, or **EnabledWithStackTrace**. Stack Traces are only available in the Unity Editor and development builds.

- Scene/Game View: Added a grid size field to the Grid and Snap Settings Overlay toolbar.

- Scene/Game View: Added `EditorToolbarFloatField` to edit float values in overlay toolbars.

- Shadergraph: Fixed the NullReferenceException when entering Play Mode with an unfocused Shader Graph window or when closing the Shader Graph Window.
    ([SGB-409](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-at-play-mode-entrance-when-unfocused-shader-graph-tab-is-opened))

- Shadergraph: Increased the speed of rename operations on properties, keywords, or dropdowns in large graphs.
    (SGB-382)

- Shadergraph: Increased the speed of setting blackboard values in large graphs.
    (SGB-384)

- Shaders: Reduced the time spent in the asset post processing code for shader assets, which speeds up the import of shaders.

- SRP Core: Reduced the number of shader variants related to HDR Output.

- SRP Core: Unified the Create, Clone and Ensure workflows for RenderPipelineGlobalSettings.

- UI Toolkit: Improved the performance of tree expansion of UI Toolkit TreeViews.

- Windows: Enabled the generated projects to now target the Visual Studio version you open them in instead of Visual Studio 2015, when you use the **Generation Visual Studio Solution** option to build for Windows.



#### API Changes

- 2D: Added: TileAnimationFlags.UnscaledTime.

- 2D: Added: TileBaseEditor with an implementation for RenderStaticPreview, which allows users who extend from the TileBase class to have a simple default asset preview for their extended classes of TileBase.

- Animation: Added: ClearKeys and CopyFromAPI in AnimationCurve.
    ([UUM-20456](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-volume-curves-have-impact-even-if-they-are-disabled), [UUM-20458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-revert-property-doesnt-work-on-curves))

- Apple TV: Added: Added identifier for 3rd generation Apple TV 4K.

- Asset Pipeline: Added: AssetDatabase.GetScriptableObjectsWithMissingScriptCount and AssetDatabase.RemoveScriptableObjectsWithMissingScript for finding and removing ScriptableObject instances in assets which are missing their scripts. \(Thank you @Xelnath for the request\!\).

- Asset Pipeline: Added: AssetDatabase.TryGetAssetFolderInfo which can be used to know if a certain path is being tracked by the AssetDatabase and can handle import dependencies and asset imports.

- Build Pipeline: Obsoleted: methods on BuildPipeline class will now trigger build error rather than warning and implementation is removed. These APIs have been marked obsolete since Unity 5.

- Core: Added: new overloads of GameObject.CompareTag and Component.CompareTag which take a new TagHandle type. These new overloads can be more efficient, especially when comparing many objects with the same tag.

- Core: Added: overload to NativeArrayUnsafeUtility.ConvertExistingDataToNativeArray which takes a Span as input.

- Documentation: Changed: Fixed duplicated inherited members in CustomRenderTexture class API documentation.

- Graphics: Added: an `AreaLight` member to the `Rendering.ShadowMapPass` enum.

- Graphics: Added: Inline Ray Tracing \(Ray Query/DXR 1.1\) support to all rasterization shader stages. Added new methods for binding an acceleration structure \(Shader.SetGlobalRayTracingAccelerationStructure, CommandBuffer.SetGlobalRayTracingAccelerationStructure\). Added new pragma require inlineraytracing support in rasterization shader stages. Added new built-in global shader keyword UNITY_DEVICE_SUPPORTS_INLINE_RAY_TRACING to be used with multi_compile.

- Graphics: Changed: Added a new read-only `Light.dilatedRange` member. Before this addition, for area lights, if you set `Light.range`, and then immediately read it back, it would return a different value. This is because area lights have a larger effective range since the source is an area, and not a single point. Now, the `Light.range` always returns the same value you set, and the newly added `Light.dilatedRange` returns the range dilated to account for the area size.

- Graphics: Changed: Deprecated `Area` in favor of `Rectangle` in the `LightType` enum. Added `Box`, `Pyramid`, and `Tube` members to the same enum.

- Graphics: Deprecated: `Light.shape`. This information is now unified into `Light.type`.

- HDRP: Deprecated: `HDLightType`, `HDLightTypeAndShape`, `SpotLightShape`, and `AreaLightShape`. HDRP directly uses Light.type in native Unity, and handles the upgrade automatically.

- Input: Added: Expose Input.mousePositionDelta.

- iOS: Added: identifiers for iPad models released in 2022.

- Networking: Removed: The legacy networking API \(Network, NetworkView, etc\), which was marked as obsolete in 2018, has now has been deleted.

- Package: Deprecated: com.unity.subsystemregistration is being deprecated.

- Package Manager: Removed: Removed the obsolete `UnityEditor.PackageManager.PackageInfo.status` field and `UnityEditor.PackageManager.PackageStatus` enum.

- SRP Core: Added: Common C\# &amp; Shader Code for Scalable Temporal Post-Processing Upscaler

- UI Toolkit: Added: VisualElement methods HandleEventBubbleUp and HandleEventTrickleDown.<br>
    Added FocusController method IgnoreEvent.

- UI Toolkit: Obsoleted: EventBase method PreventDefault. Not upgradable automatically.

- UI Toolkit: Obsoleted: PropagationPhase values AtTarget, DefaultAction, and DefaultActionAtTarget. Not upgradabe automatically.

- UI Toolkit: Obsoleted: VisualElement methods ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget. Not upgradable automatically.

- Version Control: Removed: Removed Collab and its dependency from the package.



#### Changes

- Android: Fixed the visibility of some APIs so that they are no longer publicly visible.

- Android: Upgraded Android Gradle Plugin version to 7.3.1, the Gradle version to 7.6, and the Kotlin Gradle Plugin version to 1.7.22.

- Build Pipeline: Implemented -filelist when running libtool for Mac and iOS builds to prevent command lines from becoming too long.

- Build System: Enabled the need for the TargetFramework and/or TargetFrameworks property to be set when defining a CSharpProgram2.

- Burst: Changed the Burst Inspector source location comments from `===` to either `;` or `#`, depending on the given assembly kind.

- Burst: Changed the horizontal code focus in the Burst Inspector to only scroll when branches fill more than half the space.

- Burst: Changed the target job list in the Burst Inspector to an expandable tree view, instead of a simple list.

- Burst: Enabled Burst to now only generate full debug information when **Native Debug Mode Compilation** and script debug information is enabled.

- Burst: Improved how optimisation remarks are displayed in the **LLVM IR Optimisation Diagnostics** tab in Burst Inspector.

- DX12: Changed the default format to a native resource format instead of a typeless format.

- Editor: Added an object field for meshes so they can be clicked and made visible in the Project window for the Frame Debugger.

- Editor: Added missing padding between HelpBox icon and text contents.

- Editor: Moved the Mesh Preview and list of meshes to a separate foldout for the Frame Debugger.

- GI: Moved the **Recalculate Environment Lighting** setting to **Project Settings** &gt; **Editor**. This setting was previously in the **Lighting Window** &gt; **Workflow**.

- GI: Moved the toggle for displaying lightmap resolution in scene view modes to a panel that is displayed when the relevant modes are active.

- GI: Removed the **Show lightmap resolution overlay** from the Project settings window. Use the toggle in the scene view instead.

- GI: Split the contextual panel shown for various GI scene view debug modes into two panels - one for color legends and one for settings. Changed colors and descriptions used in the GI contributor and receiver scene view debug mode.

- HDRP: Changed references of Diffusion Profile in the HDRP Wizard check by the ones in the HDRP Package

- HDRP: Changed the default light probe system to APV.

- HDRP: Enabled Extend Shadow Culling in Raytracing by default.
    (UUM-21784)

- HDRP: Modified Dynamic Resolution System to Use Fixed Scaling Steps

- Package Manager: Renamed the **My Assets** Web3 category filter in the Package Manager Window to **Decentralization**.

- UI Toolkit: Changed Event propagation rules for ExecuteDefaultAction, ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget, and PreventDefault:<br>
    - Calling StopPropagation\(\) on an event will now also prevent ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget from being called.<br>
    - Calling PreventDefault\(\) will behave like calling both StopPropagation and focusController.IgnoreEvent, so it will also stop execution of the registered callbacks further down the propagation path.<br>
    - Both ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget are now executed in-between registered callbacks during the BubbleUp phase, immediately before any callback on the current target.<br>
    - All standard control event handling was moved to registered event callbacks or HandleEventBubbleUp overrides, and can be prevented by calling StopPropagation during the TrickleDown phase. This includes triggering the Contextual menu. The exception to this rule is behavior that's part of an event's PostDispatch method, which includes switching focus on Pointer down or navigation.<br>
    - It is strongly recommended to replace ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget overrides for a HandleEventBubbleUp override instead, and PreventDefault for StopPropagation.

- UI Toolkit: Changed the Event propagation rules for composite roots, making them behave more similarly to regular elements.

- UI Toolkit: Changed the Event propagation rules for Mouse compatibility events:<br>
    - Mouse compatibility events are now dispatched alongside the Pointer event associated with them, immediately following them during each step of the TrickleDown and BubbleUp propagation phases.<br>
    - Calling StopPropagation on either the pointer event or its associated compatibility mouse event will now stop the propagation of both events after the current propagation step is completed.

- UI Toolkit: Changed the number of FocusEvents and BlurEvents sent when changing a focused element if the target has at least one composite root parent.

- Universal RP: Disabled the ability for decals to enqueue passes when running on unsupported APIs, such as OpenGL or GLES3, instead of displaying the magenta error.

- Version Control: Updated branding from **Plastic SCM** to **Unity Version Control**.<br>
    Improved offline experience by disabling the plugin when there is no internet connection.

- XR: Changed the filesystem location of the serialized Vulkan pipeline cache on Quest.

- XR: Updated the Oculus XR Plugin package version to 3.2.3.



#### Fixes

- 2D: Enabled generating a default Sprite rect for textures that are too small to be tesselated.

- 2D: Fixed an issue where the Name/FieIds in a Sprite meta file would be reordered when an importer setting is changed.
    ([UUM-22494](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-version-control-importing-certain-textures-with-multiple-sprites-cause-arbitrary-changes-in-namefileidtable-mapping-in-meta-file))

- AI: Fixed the inaccurate shape of NavMeshObstacles that prevent agents from avoiding them properly. This only applies to Windows builds.
    ([UUM-9814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-agent-moves-into-obstacles-when-moving-towards-the-destination-in-builds))

- Android: Disabled `--fastdeploy` during application installation as it works incorrectly in some cases.
    ([UUM-28376](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-is-not-updated-on-device-when-its-signed-with-a-different-key))

- Android: Enabled 'AMOTION_EVENT_AXIS_TOUCH_MINOR/AMOTION_EVENT_AXIS_TOUCH_MAJOR' axes for Game Activity to fix `Input.GetTouch.radius` APIs.
    (UUM-28698)

- Android: Enabled different maximum MSAA samples count for different graphics formats.
    ([UUM-25096](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-8x-16x-msaa-are-displayed-as-non-supported-when-device-gpus-do-support))

- Android: Enabled `CursorLockMode.Locked` support so it now works correctly on Android 8.0 or higher. For more information, see Android's API View.requestpointercapture.
    (UUM-888)

- Android: Fixed a freeze when Unity requests runtime permission. This affects the behavior of WebCamTexture, Microphone, and OBB loading: they will fail on the first attempt due to missing permissions \(no webcam/microphone found and no obbs loaded\).
    (UUM-21838)

- Android: Fixed a garbage collection deadlock in AndroidJavaProxy.
    (UUM-15968)

- Android: Fixed an issue where `Network.OperationalStatus` would always return Unknown for Android.
    ([UUM-19683](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-network-dot-operationalstatus-method-returns-unknown-status-for-all-network-interfaces-when-observing-their-operational-state))

- Android: Fixed GPU skinning on the remaining Adreno devices.
    ([UUM-20108](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-skinnedmeshrenderer-doesnt-render-mesh-when-using-snapdragon-865-sm8250-cpu-devices))

- Android: Fixed shader code generation when using SV_Coverage input.
    (UUM-26807)

- Android: Fixed the assert 'setpriority\(PRIO_PROCESS, 11121, 0\) returning -1 when it runs against GameActivity.
    (UUM-26765)

- Android: Fixed the plugin path resolving for GameActivity.
    (UUM-19908)

- Android: Fixed the Time.deltaTime values so they are now stable on Android devices.
    ([UUM-10244](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-time-dot-deltatime-values-arent-stable-on-specific-devices))

- Android: Replaced **DIR_UNITYPROJECT** in `settingsTemplate.gradle`.
    (UUM-27090)

- Animation: Fixed the default values for animation curve parameters on Volume Components being shared with the current interpolated value on the volume stack.
    ([UUM-20456](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-volume-curves-have-impact-even-if-they-are-disabled))

- Asset Import: Enabled memory leak diagnostic switches to now be passed through to the asset import workers.

- Audio: Fixed a bug when Unity Audio is disabled where `SystemInfo.supportsAudio` would return true on some platforms and false on others. This will not always return false.
    ([UUM-16017](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-systeminfo-dot-supportsaudio-inconsistency-when-built))

- Build Pipeline: Added a warning message when `BuildPlayerOptions.assetBundleManifestPath` is not set with the expected file.

- Build Pipeline: Fixed a BuildPipeline issue for the Android platform and MacStandalone builds which asks for a name and directory, despite having the last saved location details. This is triggered by using Ctrl+B \(Windows\) or Cmd+B \(macOS\).
    ([UUM-19897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-and-run-asks-for-a-name-and-directory-when-it-was-previously-provided))

- Build Pipeline: Fixed the null reference errors when loading user scripting objects from ContentFiles.
    (UUM-24989)

- Build System: Enabled consistency of .NET SDK in build and publish operations in CSharpPrograms2. Updated `Microsoft.NET.Test.Sdk` to version 17.4.0 in` Unity.BuildSystem.Tests` to resolve Newtonsoft.Json version conflict.

- Burst: Enabled Burst to now update its list of assembly paths if they change. For instance, the list of assemply paths would update if you add packages that contain precompiled assemblies.

- Burst: Enabled enum values cast to integers in a format string to correctly output the integer value.

- Burst: Fixed ***Assertion failed on expression: "exception == SCRIPTING_NULL"** errors and Editor crash when the project path contains multi-byte Unicode characters.

- Burst: Fixed **Plain Without Debug Information** outputting assembly with debug information.

- Burst: Fixed a BC1361 error when trying to compile large static read-only arrays.

- Burst: Fixed a bug in a small set of managed fallback versions of intrinsics, where the bitwise representation of float values would not be maintained.

- Burst: Fixed a compilation error when using `CompileFunctionPointer` from Burst in code compiled with Roslyn on  .NET 7+.

- Burst: Fixed a compiler AccessViolationException that could occur when compiling two or more types with the same name but different source assemblies.

- Burst: Fixed a compiler crash when invoking a `FunctionPointer` based on a generic delegate in DOTS Runtime.

- Burst: Fixed a hashing error that could occur when a struct implements a generic interface multiple times with different generic parameters.

- Burst: Fixed a namespace collision that could occur between `Unity.Burst.Cecil.dll` and the `com.unity.nuget.mono-cecil` package.

- Burst: Fixed a Player build error that could occur if the project contains an assembly with a name that doesn't match the assembly filename.

- Burst: Fixed a stall that could occur at Editor shutdown.

- Burst: Fixed a visual artifact in Burst Inspector where a block of enhanced code was cut at the bottom.

- Burst: Fixed a `BadImageFormatException` error that could occur in DOTS Runtime builds.

- Burst: Fixed an AoT linking error on Windows Link based linkers when file paths \(typically user names/home folders\) contain non-ASCII characters.

- Burst: Fixed an error when calling the direct call method from a background thread without having previously called a `BurstCompiler` API from the main thread.

- Burst: Fixed an internal compiler error that occurred when creating debug metadata from certain obfuscated DLLs.

- Burst: Fixed an internal compiler error when implcitly converting an array to a `Span`.

- Burst: Fixed an issue that causes function pointers to point to the wrong Burst function, if a domain reload occurs and a compilation started before the reload is completed soon after.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where the definition order of overloaded methods with function pointer parameters would decide which overload was actually being used.

- Burst: Fixed ARM vector registers so they are now highlighted.

- Burst: Fixed Burst compilation on QNX Arm.

- Burst: Fixed Burst tree view items leading to a wrong job if some jobs where hidden from view by filter or similar.

- Burst: Fixed crashes on 32bit CPUs when an entry point with byvalue paramaters was called when using dispatch \(multiple supported CPU targets\).

- Burst: Fixed the **Callee/caller attribute ABI did not match\!** error that could occur in certain Player builds when calling an entry point that had at least one struct-by-value parameter.

- Burst: Fixed the **LLVM IR Optimisation Diagnostic** tab in Burst Inspector so it is no longer blank if **Native Debug Mode Compilation** is enabled.

- Burst: Fixed the Burst Inspector sometimes throwing an `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` when copying without color-tags from a colored assembly.

- Burst: Fixed the inspector job tree view splitting jobs with '.' in their parameters.

- Burst: Fixed the managed fallback implementation of `Sse4_2.cmpestrs`.

- Burst: Fixed the module verification errors when using overloaded functions as function pointers.

- Core: CullResults.ComputeSpotShadowMatricesAndCullingPrimitives will now output culling planes derived from the projection matrix

- Core: Fixed an error when clearing lighting.

- Core: Fixed an error when opening a Probe Adjustment Volume.

- DX12: Fixed a crash when RenderDoc is attached to a scene with an invalid pipeline state.
    (UUM-22630)

- DX12: Fixed `GetNextFrameValue()` in DX12 native rendering plugins.
    ([UUM-23065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getnextframefencevalue-always-returns-1))

- Editor: Added a restriction to `SetParent()` to prevent a crash.
    ([UUM-12399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-rebuildtransformhierarchy-when-setting-a-transform-parent-to-assetbundle))

- Editor: Added support for property paths with brackets.
    (DOTSE-2003)

- Editor: Disabled the RegisterObjectSelectorWithInvalidId test failing with debugallocator.
    (UUM-22302)

- Editor: Enabled all samples to be loaded at once without assembly name collisions.

- Editor: Enabled DefaultFetchLabel to use the actual label value if it exists.
    (DOTSE-1995)

- Editor: Enabled GameObjects from the 31st layer to be rendered when `Camera.cullingMask` is set to **Everything**.
    ([UUM-2698](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-from-31st-layer-are-not-rendered-when-camera-dot-cullingmask-is-set-to-everything))

- Editor: Enabled Leak Detection in player builds during the ProcessExit event.

- Editor: Enabled prevention of AsyncGPUReadback requests accumulation when the Editor is inactive.
    ([UUM-19169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-with-asyncgpureadback-class-in-the-script-leaks-memory-when-the-editor-is-running-in-the-background))

- Editor: Enabled the Editor to stay in focus when closing multiple windows in succession.
    ([UUM-27245](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-goes-out-of-focus-when-closing-player-settings-and-build-settings))

- Editor: Enabled the MaterialProperty Range to display with a slider and an editable TextField.
    (DOTSE-2008)

- Editor: Enabled the progress bar to display on domain reload in Linux.
    (UUM-27077)

- Editor: Fixed a case where missing nested Prefabs would break the import of outer Prefabs. All Prefabs will now be reimported due to this fix.
    ([UUM-24836](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2023-dot-1-importer-fails-on-a-particular-prefab-after-upgrading-versions))

- Editor: Fixed a crash observed in a HDRP sample project on the Standalone Player.
    ([UUM-20176](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-template-standalone-player-crashes-after-a-few-seconds))

- Editor: Fixed a crash on shutdown when using the CLI option `-cacheServerWaitForUploadCompletion`.

- Editor: Fixed a crash when dragging game view in and out of the docked view on Linux with Mesa drivers.
    ([UUM-16015](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-amd-undocking-the-game-view-crashes-the-editor))

- Editor: Fixed a Drag and Drop to parent folder when the parent contains a child folder with the same name.
    ([UUM-11707](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-and-dropping-a-uss-file-to-a-folder-in-the-project-window-moves-the-file-to-a-subfolder))

- Editor: Fixed a DX11 Standalone crash when closing the application.
    (UUM-20507)

- Editor: Fixed a memory leak in UI Toolkit.
    ([UUM-16365](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-ui-documents-are-not-unloaded-correctly-when-switching-scenes))

- Editor: Fixed a potential crash when you select non-GameObjects during a domain reload.

- Editor: Fixed a regression that changed the default behaviour of animators on disabled.
    (UUM-27229)

- Editor: Fixed a Windows issue where resizing a window draws black.
    ([UUM-24720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-resizing-a-secondary-window-with-native-titlebars-draws-black))

- Editor: Fixed an Editor crash that can happen when editing terrain.

- Editor: Fixed an exception when using Renderer2D with FullScreenPassRendererFeature.
    ([UUM-25396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentnullexception-value-cannot-be-null-dot-error-when-using-the-post-processing-feature-full-screen-pass-renderer-feature-together-with-the-2d-renderer))

- Editor: Fixed an issue in the Frame Debugger to enable scrolling in the window to work when the Mesh Preview is being used.

- Editor: Fixed an issue in the Frame Debugger with errors that appear when you enable the debugger when it was docked with the Game Window.
    ([UUM-17193](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-frame-debugger-window-doesnt-open-and-throws-errors-when-docked-with-game-window))

- Editor: Fixed an issue so you are now able to select chosen settings when editing them in the **Request Authorization on App Launch** or **Enable Push Notifications** menus.
    ([UUM-14777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mobile-notification-unable-to-select-wanted-settings-when-editing-them-in-the-request-authorization-on-app-launch-or-enable-push-notifications-menus))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where a test body would be skipped under certain conditions regarding domain reload.

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the **Uncategorized** category filter would not apply correctly to parameterized tests with a category in the fixture.
    ([DSTR-699](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-category-attribute-doesnt-take-effect-when-the-values-attribute-is-present))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with animators where the root bone would be reset for humanoid in edge cases with the pose playable.
    ([UUM-26509](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animated-model-translated-down-when-interrupting-a-transition))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the initialization of raytracing which could fail during certain frames.
    (UUM-26885)

- Editor: Fixed an OS key binding exception in ShortcutManager.
    ([UUM-4125](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-keys-show-up-with-incorrect-keycodes-and-throw-errors-when-attempting-to-reassign-shortcuts-to-them))

- Editor: Fixed ReorderableList element culling when drawing with GUI rotation or scaling applied.
    ([UUM-10761](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-doesnt-render-list-contents-when-using-guiutility-dot-scalearoundpivot))

- Editor: Fixed the corrupt Animation Curve preview when the time range is less than 1.
    ([UUM-27045](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationcurve-field-preview-displays-an-additional-curve-in-inspector-when-its-curve-time-is-less-or-greater-than-1))

- Editor: Fixed the Input Manager for views that are re-enabled while playmode is still running.
    (MTT-5037)

- Editor: Fixed the Inspector Transform Component foldout so it now responds to input on the top half.
    ([UUM-16138](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transform-component-doesnt-collapse-when-pressing-on-the-top-pixels-of-the-component))

- Editor: Fixed the prefab override indicator not being shown when the component was overridden.
    ([UUM-3473](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-or-misplaced-prefab-override-indicator-on-some-components-in-inspector))

- Editor: Fixed the Shift modifier so that it can now use SceneView tool shortcuts.
    ([UUM-21938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-shift-key-prevent-the-use-of-sceneview-tool-shortcuts))

- Editor: Fixed the URL for the Scene Template documentation.

- Editor: Fixed Vulkan shaders that use shadow map 2D array textures.
    ([UUM-17756](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-texture2d-array-shadow-does-not-work-when-built-for-android-with-vulkan-api))

- Editor: Fixed `EditorWindows` receiving `SoftDelete` command when the Edit/Delete shortcut is not bound to the Delete key.
    (UUM-5139)

- Editor: Improved progress reporting for **Generate Lighting**.
    ([UUM-28515](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightbaker-progress-reporting-is-broken))

- Editor: Removed a warning about mismatching mipmap limits when using a region-based CopyTexture.
    ([UUM-21771](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unnecessary-amounts-of-warnings-are-logged-when-using-graphics-dot-copytexture))

- Editor: Removed an unnecessary "cannot be multi-edited" message in the Inspector.
    ([UUM-10473](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-components-that-are-only-on-some-of-the-selected-objects-cannot-be-multi-edited-appears-in-inspector-even-after-deselecting-multiple-objects))

- GI: Added geometry warnings for invalid meshes in LightBaker.

- GI: Fixed an issue where lightmaps would be swapped when entering playmode when the **Reload Scene** option is disabled.
    ([UUM-21437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multiscene-lightmaps-are-swapped-when-entering-the-play-mode-for-the-first-time-after-loading-a-scene-when-reload-scene-is-disabled))

- GI: Fixed the total bake time so it is no longer truncated in the Editor and API.
    ([UUM-22720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bake-time-total-is-getting-truncated))

- GI: Improved the BakePipeline progress reporting in the Editor UI.

- Graphics: Added an error message when enabling restricted keywords on a Material.
    ([UUM-3576](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-vkgetinstanceprocaddr-and-drawbuffersbatchmodeenabling-with-keyword-instancing-on-when-using-vulkan-opengles-and-metal))

- Graphics: Added GetVisiblePositions to TrailRenderer.
    ([UUM-21893](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trailrenderer-dot-getpositions-returns-invisible-points))

- Graphics: Enabled BatchCullingContext to now only contain receiver planes for lights where `useViewFrustumForShadowCasterCull` is true \(the default\).

- Graphics: Enabled throwing an ArgumentNullException if null is passed in as a parameter to Unwrapping.GeneratePerTriangleUV.
    ([UUM-4614](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-unwrapping-custom-generatepertriangleuvimpl-injected-when-passing-null-to-unwrapping-dot-generatesecondaryuvset))

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when loading a zero-sized Texture2D asset.
    ([UUM-9343](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-importing-font-material-asset))

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when the swapchain creation would fail if the  window is not ready at an engine boot.<br>
    This fix enables using the offscreen swapchain while loading finishes and creates a real swapchain.

- Graphics: Fixed caustics rendering so water now works on AMD.
    ([UUM-21350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-caustics-are-not-rendered-on-amd-gpus))

- Graphics: Fixed glitches on macOS when the rendering path is set to deferred.
    ([UUM-21567](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/m1-glitches-and-graphical-artifacts-are-appearing-when-rendering-path-is-set-to-deferred-using-the-built-in-render-pipeline))

- Graphics: Fixed present callbacks so they are now called correctly when the GfxDeviceClient is set to not be serializing \(ST threading mode\).
    (UUM-25836)

- Graphics: Fixed the behaviour of the staticShadowCaster flag when using BatchRendererGroup with cached shadow maps.

- Graphics: Fixed the missing Lens Flare permutation.
    (UUM-19982)

- Graphics: Removed the deprecation of SceneRenderPipeline and limited its behaviour until a replacement is proposed.
    ([UUM-11126](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deprecated-scenerenderpipeline-script-does-not-mention-any-alternatives-for-setting-up-specific-render-pipelines-during-scene-loading))

- Graphics Tests: Updated the bokken images for the graphics tests.

- HDRP: Added a missing node to detect underwater pixels.
    (UUM-22011)

- HDRP: Added DecalShaderGraphGUI.SetupDecalKeywordsAndPass back.

- HDRP: Enabled path tracing to now produce correct results when dynamic resolution is enabled.
    (UUM-23315)

- HDRP: Fixed a glitch in one frame in the Editor when using path tracing.
    (UUM-22917)

- HDRP: Fixed a serialization issue affecting other objects.

- HDRP: Fixed an error with water and dynamic pass culling.

- HDRP: Fixed an issue that placed an upper limit on the total number of segments drawn by the High Quality Line Renderer.

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where High Quality Line instances were not being drawn in back to front order.

- HDRP: Fixed an issue with Mac and HDR so it now shows correct results when HDR is enabled.
    (UUM-26282)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue with ray tracing initialization when switching between render pipeline assets.
    (UUM-24692)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue with specifying how much memory gets allocated for High Quality Line Rendering.

- HDRP: Fixed HDSceneDepth triggering errors for uninitialized values.
    (UUM-21185)

- HDRP: Fixed jittering when rendering objects after post process with TAA and Dynamic resolution enabled.

- HDRP: Fixed OSX Support for High Quality Lines.

- HDRP: Fixed several issues for High Quality Line Rendering that were discovered on the "Enemies" production.

- HDRP: Fixed the albedo and specular color override so it is now considered as sRGB.
    (UUM-23268)

- HDRP: Fixed the angle attenuation of spot lights. Previously, the angle attentuation did not take the light radius hack into account, which caused issues when objects are close to a light.

- HDRP: Fixed the diffusion profile list upgrade.

- HDRP: Fixed the exposure for SSR debug rendering.
    ([UUM-19575](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-screen-space-reflections-debug-is-not-working))

- HDRP: Fixed the foam generator so it is now relative to GameObject scale.
    (UUM-20903)

- HDRP: Fixed the initial mask extent value for water surfaces.
    (UUM-20904)

- HDRP: Fixed the label and improved the documentation for After Post Process depth test flag to provide more detail about Depth Test being automatically disabled in some cases.

- HDRP: Fixed the low resolution transparents using Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-21628](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-buffers-sampling-in-shadergraph-is-broken-when-using-low-resultion-pass))

- HDRP: Fixed the raytraced reflections for box lights so they are no longer cut off if the range is too small.
    ([UUM-21442](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-boxlight-reflections-looks-incorrect-in-rtx))

- HDRP: Fixed the shadow culling planes for box-shaped spot lights.

- HDRP: Fixed the time determinism for water surfaces.
    ([UUM-22814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-simulation-speed-in-dependent-on-framerate-with-the-recorder))

- HDRP: Fixed the unsupported high quality line rendering targets for the Shader Graph inspector.
    (UUM-26179)

- HDRP: Fixed the usage of `FindObjectsByType` so it now uses `FindObjectsSortMode.None`.

- HDRP: Fixed the usage of `HDMaterial.ValidateMaterial` for materials created from ShaderGraphs.

- HDRP: Fixed the world position offset in water CPU simulation.
    (UUM-21873)

- HDRP: Improved the reflection probe debug.

- IL2CPP: Emitted code that compiles for array element access from null in a non-development player build.
    ([UUM-597](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-unity-fails-to-build-when-using-faulty-function-with-an-element-being-called-from-null-array))

- IL2CPP: Enabled display of the name of each thread in native and third party profilers.
    (UUM-21136)

- IL2CPP: Fixed a bug where IL2CPP returns an invalid pointer on P/Invoke methods that returns a non-blittable struct by reference.
    ([UUM-20790](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-returns-a-pointer-to-the-stack-value-which-points-to-invalid-memory-when-generating-code))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a compile error when you enable bitcode for an Android build.
    ([UUM-25113](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-undefined-symbol-error-is-thrown-when-building-with-the-fembed-bitcode-flag))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a crash when the memory profiler is enabled.
    ([UUM-18685](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-crashes-on-il2cpp-vm-class-getvirtualmethod-when-building-and-running-a-project-using-il2cpp-scripting-backend))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a potential .cpp file name collision when two assembly names differ only by a number at the end of their name.
    ([UUM-27951](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-can-fail-when-2-assembly-definitions-have-similar-names))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a race condition when creating generic class metadata.
    (UUM-26516)

- IL2CPP: Fixed an intermittent crash in the thread pool implementation when the socket no longer exists during a HTTP request.
    (UUM-21671)

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue that did not allow access to special folders in Windows Store apps.
    ([UUM-17611](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-access-knownfolders-dot-objects3d-folder-using-system-dot-io-api-when-deployed-on-hololens-2))

- IL2CPP: Fixed IL2CPP build crashes when capturing memory snapshot.
    ([UUM-21880](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-crashes-when-capturing-memory-snapshot))

- IL2CPP: Fixed the incorrect custom attribute lookup on a field derived in a base class from a different assembly.
    ([UUM-27593](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-throws-errors-when-using-custom-attributes))

- IL2CPP: Fixed the InvalidCastException being thrown when you serialize jagged arrays using BinaryFormatter.
    ([UUM-23156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-invalidcastexception-is-thrown-when-serializing-jagged-arrays-using-binaryformatter))

- IL2CPP: Fixed the Mac build error from multiple identically named files in the same directory during a build.
    ([UUM-26386](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-macos-build-fails-with-system-dot-argumentexception-when-building-with-il2cpp-stack-trace-information-with-line-numbers))

- IL2CPP: Fixed `Monitor.IsEntered` returning true when the monitor is entered on a different thread from the current thread.
    ([UUM-22329](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/monitor-dot-isentered-checks-if-any-thread-holds-the-lock-when-using-il2cpp))

- IL2CPP: Improved the performance of getting current 100ns ticks value on Windows.

- IL2CPP: Reverted **Skip Metadata Initialization for Well known Types** to fix performance regression.
    (UUM-25793)

- iOS: Added cutouts for the iPhone 14 family.
    ([UUM-22474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-iphone-14-devices-crash-when-portrait-upside-down-orientation-is-forced))

- iOS: Fixed a memory leak when using `GL.Clear` in MonoBehaviour Update/LateUpdate.
    ([UUM-8457](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-memory-leaks-when-calling-gl-dot-clear-from-update-slash-late-update))

- Kernel: Fixed a potential crash at app shutdown.
    (UUM-26528)

- Linux: Fixed the Linux Editor so it no longer ignores a SIGTERM signal.
    ([UUM-24705](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-ignores-sigterm-signal-when-using-command-kill))

- Linux: Fixed the Mouse position so it is now correct when playing the build on a multiple monitor setup in full screen mode.
    ([UUM-26497](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-mouse-position-is-incorrect-when-playing-build-on-a-multiple-monitor-setup-in-full-screen-mode))

- Linux: Fixed the Null Reference Exception thrown when you rotate in Scene View and move the cursor outside the boundary.
    ([UUM-21895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-nullreferenceexception-thrown-when-rotating-in-scene-view-and-moving-the-cursor-outside-of-the-screen-boundaries))

- Linux: Fixed the panel focus switching when arrow keys are pressed while in Play Mode.
    ([UUM-21632](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-panel-focus-gets-switched-when-the-arrow-keys-are-pressed-while-in-play-mode))

- macOS: Removed an empty gap on each vertical screen of the macOS Player when rendering fullscreen on Macs with a notch the first time the application is started.

- Mono: Added `get_win32_restore_stack` implementation for ARM64 in Mono.
    (UUM-20941)

- Mono: Corrected the CustomMarshal attribute definition for the `Control::Font` property in `System.Windows.Forms.dll` in the AOT profile.

- Mono: Fixed a crash when using ConditionalWeakTable.
    ([UUM-25411](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crashes-on-garbagecollector-collectincremental-when-entering-the-play-mode))

- Mono: Fixed the Mono default interface methods with protected virtual class methods.
    ([UUM-22228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mono-calls-wrong-methods-when-using-default-interface-methods))

- Mono: Updated the IL2CPP and Mono code.

- Package: Updated Sequences \(com.unity.sequences\) to 2.1.0-pre.1.

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where a project with a large number of git dependencies would have resolution errors with error code 429 \(Too Many Requests\). The number of concurrent requests is six by default, but it can be changed by setting the `UPM_GIT_MAX_CONCURRENT_COMMANDS` environment variable.
    ([UUM-6049](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rpc-failed-http-429-curl-22-the-requested-url-returned-error-429-error-message-appears-when-executing-git-commands))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where local and git packages are not visible in `Unity Registry` and `My Registries`.
    ([UUM-20549](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-is-removed-from-the-scoped-registry-when-installing-the-same-package-from-a-local-disk))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue which prevented starting UPM when a `package.json` file containing `"type": "module"` was present on any of the ancestor directories.
    (UUM-18512)

- Package Manager: Packages are deleted after changing the **My Assets** cache location to non-default when the asset is updated in Package Manager.
    ([UUM-25376](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packages-are-deleted-after-changing-the-my-assets-cache-location-to-non-default-when-the-asset-is-updated-in-package-manager))

- Particles: Fixed a null reference exception when undoing Particle System changes.
    ([UUM-25452](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-at-reverting-changes-after-resetting-multiple-particle-systems))

- Particles: Fixed a Particle System rendering corruption.
    ([UUM-21106](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-visualisation-corruption-occurs-when-rendering-particles-to-render-texture))

- Particles: Fixed the race condition when scheduling C\# particle jobs.

- Physics: Fixed a crash while entering Play Mode with a cloth component that hasn't been edited.
    ([UUM-16091](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-clothscene-preparescene-when-entering-play-mode))

- Physics: Fixed capsule jittering and not reaching sleep state.
    ([UUM-17977](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/capsule-gameobjects-are-jittering-when-they-are-supposed-to-be-sleeping))

- Physics: Fixed incorrect capsule and convex mesh collision detection.
    ([UUM-7391](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics-dot-computepenetration-detects-a-collision-with-capsulecollider-if-meshcollider-convex-is-enabled-when-there-is-no-collision))

- Physics: Updated documentation to include the new behavior of Rigidbody interpolation and extrapolation.
    ([UUM-26857](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spawned-gameobject-position-is-not-updated-when-rigidbody-interpolation-is-used))

- Player: Enabled Native Leak Detection to now work in Player builds. Previously, it would not report upon ProcessExit.

- Player: Fixed timestamps argument.

- Prefabs: Disabled IMGUI ReorderableList elements when previewing overridden values PrefabMode InContext.
    ([UUM-13618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-list-contains-the-wrong-number-of-elements-when-opening-it-through-a-prefab-variant))

- Prefabs: Fixed the prefab mode so it now sorts renderer components accordingly.

- Scene/Game View: Added the ability for snap toggle to now enable both grid and increment snapping.
    (PBLD-53)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed a warning when adding a new Scene View tab in a 2D template project.
    (UUM-28978)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an `ISupportOverlays` implementation incorrectly showing Overlays targeting implementing classes.
    (UUM-26841)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed crashes in GetFilteredRendererNodes when trying to pick an object with an active BatchRendererGroup.

- Scene/Game View: Fixed the inconsistent sizing for horizontal and vertical Overlay toolbar elements.

- Scene/Game View: Fixed the rectangle selection conflicts with scene view tools.
    ([UUM-22218](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-deselect-while-rotating-the-scene-view-camera-using-alt-plus-lmb-combination-when-the-console-is-populated))

- Scripting: Fixed a possible crash when handling asmdef compiled assemblies that have been copied into the Project.

- Scripting: Fixed the timeout when running the runtime performance tests on iPhoneSE.
    (UUM-21798)

- Serialization: Fixed a boxedValue throwing an exception if you try to set a string value null.

- Shaders: Enabled shaders to reimport correctly when installing a package that only has shader include files.
    (UUM-16415)

- Shaders: Fixed SV_PrimitiveID on Metal.
    ([UUM-22593](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-shader-is-broken-when-using-sv-primitiveid))

- SRP Core: Fixed an IES Importer issue producing incorrect results.
    (UUM-16309)

- SRP Core: Fixed the Revert Property for animation curves on Volume Components so it now works correctly.
    ([UUM-20458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-revert-property-doesnt-work-on-curves))

- SRP Core: Updated the Render Graph documentation to reflect API changes.

- Terrain: Added default TerrainTools Overlay docking.

- Tests: Fixed failing tests on Test IntegrationTests - Linux64Standalone \(Ubuntu 18.04\) Yamato Job.

- TextCore: Enabled glyphs to display in the Inspector of a bitmap font asset.
    (UUM-20325)

- TextCore: Enabled `FontAsset.HasCharacter` to now support UTF32.
    ([UUM-22663](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-tmp-fontasset-dot-hascharacter-overloads-are-missing-utf32-support))

- TLS: Implemented cumulative TLS updates:<br>
    * Fixed invalid verification results reported in cases where there is a TLS handshake failure.<br>
    * Fixed an issue where opening multiple TLS connections with different lifetimes might affect the ability to produce log output after one of the first connections is closed.<br>
    * Improved TLS errors reported by Unity Web Request.

- uGUI: Fixed a NullReferenceException in 1Image.sprite` when setting a new Sprite and the current `Sprite.Texture\` is null.
    ([UUM-13053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ugui-nullreferenceexception-when-sprite-dot-texture-is-null))

- UI Elements: Fixed an issue with the GenericDropdownMenu that prevented the items from receiving input when it's reused.
    ([UUM-21001](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-callbacks-for-attachtopanelevent-and-detachfrompanelevent-are-unregistered-when-the-ondetachfrompanel-is-called))

- UI Toolkit: Enabled the TextField placeholder to refresh.
    (UUM-21819)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder for `UxmlAssetAttributeDescription` where setting None through the object picker would prevent choosing another value.
    (UUM-27170)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder so the open file dialog now displays the current project's folder.
    (UUM-24723)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue so the tint of an Image element now triggers a repaint.
    ([UUM-22563](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uitoolkit-image-is-not-repainted-when-making-style-changes-to-tint-color))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where an ExposedReference control would always create a new PropertyName value when changing an object reference.
    (UUM-25160)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where an ExposedReference control would not serialize its value.
    (UUM-25153)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the InspectorElement so it now applies its disabled state for embedded IMGUI inspectors.
    (UUM-25149)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the ListView binding with negative indexes when a negative scroll offset was applied.
    ([UUM-12868](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/treeview-binding-breaks-when-using-negative-scrolloffset))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the ListView itemsRemoved event being invoked after the items were removed from the serializedObjectList. They are now removed after the callback.
    ([UUM-10786](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-errors-in-the-console-when-removing-items-from-a-scriptableobjects-listview))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the UI document so it now has the correct size for multiple displays.
    ([UUM-18757](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-rescale-of-the-ui-document-when-using-multi-display))

- Universal RP: Fixed a compilation error that was caused by a wrong parameter while deprecating `UniversalRenderPipeline.RenderSingleCamera`.

- Universal RP: Fixed a light cookie out of bounds.
    ([UUM-20622](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendering-stops-and-error-is-spammed-when-light-limit-is-reached-on-ios-metal-using-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed a missing keyword in ParticlesSimpleLit for Lightmap shadow mixing.
    ([UUM-26403](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-particle-simplelit-is-missing-number-pragma-multi-compile-lightmap-shadow-mixing))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue causing Dynamic Resolution to be disabled during URP rendering.
    ([UUM-18852](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-dynamic-resolution-cant-be-checked-when-scene-view-tab-isnt-focused))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue so that deferred rendering now works correctly in builds with Accurate GBuffer Normals enabled.
    ([UUM-25112](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nothing-is-rendered-in-the-built-urp-project-when-deferred-rendering-is-selected-and-accurate-g-buffer-normals-are-enabled))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where **Write Rendering Layers** was sometimes incorrectly enabled in Deferred Rendering.

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where alpha clipping was not working with Unlit shader's DepthNormal pass.
    ([UUM-20888](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-the-default-unlit-material-doesnt-clip-depth-in-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where instantiating and destroying cameras, with Volume Update Mode set to ViaScripting, would allocate each time.
    ([UUM-22213](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-instantiating-and-destroying-camera-with-update-mode-set-to-via-scripting-causes-memory-leak))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where keywords used in Post Processing were also stripped in other shaders.

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where scenes were not marked dirty after changing the volume update setting on cameras.

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where some sprites were causing null exception errors.
    (UUM-20218)

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where the Depth Priming check was accidentally removed, which caused CI failures.

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where the main light shadows were incorrect if the scene and game windows were open.
    (UUM-9825)

- Universal RP: Fixed the additional light shadows and soft shadows missing on transparent lit objects when using the deferred renderer.
    ([UUM-20792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lights-shine-through-opaque-objects-when-the-rendering-path-option-is-set-to-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed the warnings that appear in `GlobalIllumination.hlsl` regarding gradient instruction used in a loop.
    ([UUM-21675](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-in-lightcookieinput-dot-hlsl-when-using-cookie))

- Universal RP: Fixed various errors that appeared when Strict Variant Matching is enabled.

- Universal RP: Fixed _WorldSpaceCameraPos so it is now set correctly in XR Multipass.
    ([UUM-2514](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-urp-multipass-worldspacecamerapos-is-not-set-correctly-for-both-eyes))

- Universal RP: Prevent negative color and NaN write to TAA history.
    ([UUM-26709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/temporal-anti-aliasing-taa-produces-severe-artifacting-when-quality-set-to-very-high))

- URP: Fixed light batching with Rendergraph2D passes.
    (UUM-23153)

- URP: Fixed NullReferenceException being thrown when opening Light Explorer with 2D Lights.
    ([UUM-19576](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-opening-light-explorer-with-2d-lights))

- URP: Fixed the HDR output so it is no longer overly saturated because of a Color Grading variant not included in builds.
    (UUM-27503)

- URP: Fixed XR vsync so it stays enabled when the focus is lost.
    (UUM-16846)

- UTR: Enabled re-throwing an exception with an improved error message in `Workspace.CurrentVersionString`.

- UTR: Implemented a new UTR 1.14.0 tool.

- VFX Graph: Added extra memory to allow external threads to steal VFX update jobs.
    (UUM-22049)

- VFX Graph: Enabled correct generation of the interpolator modifiers for packed structure in HDRP Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-555](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-constants-not-correctly-patched-in-vs))

- VFX Graph: Enabled minimizing the generated interpolator count with VFX Shader Graph to improve its performance and avoid reaching the limit.
    (UUM-20787)

- VFX Graph: Fixed a crash when removing VFXRenderer from a disabled GameObject.
    ([UUM-16391](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-memorymanager-deallocate-when-reimporting-vfx-graph-asset))

- VFX Graph: Fixed a serialization issue causing a potential crash due to bounds computation.
    ([UUM-25009](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-crash-with-bounds-paddings))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue where VFXs were not culled properly, causing flickering shadows.
    ([UUM-14271](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-shadows-flicker-when-effect-is-out-of-camera-frustum))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an unexpected motion vector when adding precompute velocity that was enabled in Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-22368](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-slash-sg-wrong-motion-vector-on-mesh-using-sg))

- VFX Graph: Fixed compilation error when targeting .NET Standard runtime.
    ([UUM-21618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/visual-effect-graph-package-compilation-fails-when-the-editor-assemblies-compatibility-level-is-set-to-net-standard))

- VFX Graph: Fixed mesh LOD flickering when using TAA.
    ([UUM-10073](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lod-groups-flicker-in-scene-view-when-always-refresh-is-on))

- VFX Graph: Fixed minor issues with Cube and Sphere particle outputs.
    (UUM-4792)

- VFX Graph: Fixed mismatching LOD between eyes in multi-pass VR.
    (UUM-6004)

- VFX Graph: Fixed the range not being applied in the UI when setting up a value out of the allowed range.
    ([UUM-20616](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-min-slash-max-slash-range-is-not-reflected-in-ui-for-numeric-properties))

- VFX Graph: Fixed the `Dispose()` method of `MeshToSDFBaker` leading to memory leaks
    ([UUM-25814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sdf-baking-causes-memory-to-be-allocated-that-isnt-deallocated-when-in-play-mode-and-in-builds))

- VFX Graph: Fixed unexpected per frame garbage while using Timeline.
    (UUM-26997)

- VFX Graph: Removed unnecessary file access when new assets are imported.
    (UUM-21642)

- VFX Graph: Restored missing tooltips.
    (UUM-18536)

- Video: Enabled VideoPlayer compositing material to recreate after stopping.
    (UUM-21664)

- WebGL: Fixed the playback of MP3 audio files loaded via UnityWebRequest on Safari.
    ([UUM-25389](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-audio-source-has-no-sound-if-the-audio-clip-was-downloaded-via-webrequest-on-ios-devices))

- Windows: Fixed a potential crash during Windows Player cleanup.
    ([UUM-25383](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-screenmanagerwin-recommitcursorlock-when-screenmanager-pointer-is-used))

- Windows: Fixed incorrect display names of certain subset of keys.
    ([UUM-22694](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-system-arrow-keys-are-displayed-as-num-when-using-arrowkey-dot-displaynames))

- XR: Updated XR Core-Utils version to 2.2.0.

- XR: Updated XR Hands version to 1.1.0-pre.3.

- XR: Updated XR Interaction Toolkit version to 2.3.0.

