### Known Issues in 2023.2.0a9

- 2D: Fixed regression in time to open a project and enter playmode.
    (UUM-31205)    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a10.*

- Android: Fixed mouse scrolling issues by disabling historical values from input events.
    (UUM-28696)    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a10.*

- Audio: Audio random container shows subassets in the project folder when adding clips via drag &amp; drop

- Audio: Audio Random Container window clears when deselecting the Audio Random Container in the project view

- Audio: Dragging a audio clip from project view into the Audio Random Container AudioClips list, behaves incorrectly.

- Audio: The Audio Random Container window sometimes loads an incorrect UI when entering playmode

- DirectX12: [macOS] Editor freezes when saving prefab changes in Play Mode if “VSync” is enabled
    ([UUM-30173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-editor-freezes-when-saving-prefab-changes-in-play-mode-if-vsync-is-enabled))

- Editor: Changed the order of the Sprites in the drop-down asset creation menu for 2D.
    ([UUM-12509](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-the-order-of-the-sprites-is-changed-in-the-drop-down-asset-creation-menu))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a10.*

- FrameDebugger: Frame Debugger VRAM memory leak
    ([UUM-28065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-vram-memory-leak))

- GI: Fixed an Editor crash when baking a scene with an invalid mesh.
    ([UUM-30786](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-hard-crashes-when-baking-scenes-with-lightbaker))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a10.*

- Graphics: Fix crash on IOS/Android/Silicon devices in ScriptableRenderLoop \(DrawRenderers and DrawShadows\) caused by threading issue.
    ([UUM-25831](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/silicon-crash-on-scriptablerenderloopjob-when-machine-is-left-idle-while-the-editor-is-in-play-mode))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a11.*

- HDRP: Fixed the init order that could cause DXR setup to fail after using the HDRP wizard to enable DXR on an existing HDRP project.
    ([UUM-21776](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-game-view-is-black-and-the-editor-throws-a-nullreferenceexception-after-restarting-the-editor-when-pressing-the-fix-all-button-in-hdrp-wizard))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a10.*

- IMGUI: Fixed the horizontal scrolling of the IMGUI text fields when the string exceeds the width.
    ([UUM-29597](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renaming-assets-in-project-browser-does-not-display-the-name-from-last-character-entered))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a10.*

- Linux: [Vulkan] Crash on "__sigaction" when Vulkan is set as default Graphics API
    ([UUM-30668](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-vulkan-crash-on-sigaction-when-vulkan-is-set-as-default-graphics-api))

- Metal: [iOS] Framerate drops below 120fps when tapping the screen in a near-empty scene on iPhone 13 Pro
    ([UUM-5944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-target-fps-is-ignored-on-iphone-13-pro))

- Serialization: Fixed the issue of deletion of a script not being detected as a change in the scripts which leads to the serialization not being able to correctly detect missing reference types. This PR fixes the issue by checking if there were any scripts deleted after the latest recompile.
    (UUM-31173)    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a10.*

- Serialization: When accumulating the fully qualified names for given generic type process all the types involved in the given generic type at once, instead of recursively calling the accumulate method for the type of the generic's parameter.
    ([UUM-24691](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-build-project-when-using-a-public-optional-bool-variable))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a11.*

- Texture: [AsyncUpload] Crash on Sprite::Transfer<GenerateTypeTreeTransfer> when building the project
    ([UUM-31364](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-sprite-transfer-when-building-the-project))

- Universal RP: Fixed errors caused by Camera's Preview window.
    ([UUM-29111](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-selecting-the-main-camera-in-the-scene-throws-attempting-to-load-aa-ed-rt-contents-after-it-was-resolved-without-sorting-warnings-in-the-console))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a10.*

- Universal RP: Fixed the Screen flicker in Scene view.
    ([UUM-24656](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-urp-the-scene-view-flickers-when-hovering-over-it-with-the-cursor))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.2.0a10.*

- Windows: BuildPipeline.BuildPlayer ignores BuildPlayerOptions.locationPathName and attempts to build to the cached folder
    ([UUM-30952](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/buildpipeline-dot-buildplayer-ignores-buildplayeroptions-dot-locationpathname-and-attempts-to-build-to-the-cached-folder))



### New 2023.2.0a9 Entries since 2023.2.0a8

#### Features

- Audio: Added a new AudioRandomContainer asset which lets a user quickly set up a playlist that can be randomized in different ways, with different ways of triggering the sounds. It is useful for most sound use cases, such as footsteps, impacts, weapons, and props. An AudioRandomContainer is played through an AudioSource.

- HDRP: Added Volume Profile to HD Render Pipeline Asset.

- Profiler: Added metadata support for AudioClip and Shader in Memory Profiler.

- UI Toolkit: Added UxmlElement and UxmlAttribute attributes. These attributes replace the current UxmlFactory and UxmlTraits when creating custom UI Toolkit elements. It is also now possible to create custom property drawers for fields in the same way as the Inspector.

- Universal RP: Added Default Volume Profile to URP Global Settings.

- URP: Added Volume Profile to Universal Render Pipeline Asset.

- VFX Graph: Enabled the creation of URP Decal Particle Output.



#### Improvements

- 2D: Added icons to the Clipboard and Brush Pick overlays for Tile Palette when the overlays are collapsed.
    ([UUM-29771](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-brush-pick-and-tile-palette-clipboard-overlay-indicators-in-scene-view-look-the-same))

- Burst: Added support for ChromeOS in Unity versions 2020.3 and 2019.4.

- Burst: Enabled Windows/ARM64 targeting support.

- Editor: Increased the speed of enter playmode \(especially with larger scenes\).

- Entities Graphics: Added support for using the built-in ParticlesUnlit shader with a MeshRenderer in a subscene.
    (UUM-17812)

- Kernel: Improved the performance in heavily run code paths for NativeArray, UnsafeUtility, and AtomicSafetyHandle through inlining.

- Physics 2D: Removed redundant scripting API descriptions in overloads of several Physic2D queries.

- Serialization: Improved performance of restoring managed objects during a domain reload.

- Shaders: Added support on Metal for vprog having void return type.

- SRP Core: Changed the parameters of Default Volume Profile to be evaluated once when it is changed instead of being evaluated every frame.

- UI Toolkit: Added missing keyboard navigation support for left and right keys in TreeView.



#### API Changes

- Android: Added: Added new Android Project Configuration API that allows to copy arbitrary files to the Gradle project.

- Android: Added: Expose UnityPlayer.invokeOnMainThread, a helper function for delegating callbacks on game loop thread.

- Android: Deprecated: Deprecate OnPostGenerateGradleAndroidProject in favor of OnModifyAndroidProjectFiles.

- Editor: Added: Added `EditorApplication.isFocused` property indicating the cached state of the Editors focus.

- Editor: Added: Exposes `EditorApplication.focusChanged` event which fires when the Editor gains and loses focus.

- Graphics: Added: Added AsyncGPUReadbackRequest.forcePlayerLoopUpdate.

- SRP Core: Added: Added new VolumeManager API to manage default volume profiles.

- SRP Core: Added: Added UnityEditor.Rendering.VolumeProfileUtils class containing utilities related to managing Default Volume Profiles.

- SRP Core: Added: Added VolumeManager.Initialize\(\)/Deinitialize\(\) that Render Pipeline is expected to call from its constructor/destructor.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added API to know when a panel may need to be rendered to use in conjunction with on demand rendering.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added canChangeExpandedState to tree view controllers to allow users to disable items expansion.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added drag and drop API for collection views; canStartDrag, setupDragAndDrop, dragAndDropUpdate and handleDrop, similar to what exists in IMGUI.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added GetIndentationDepth and GetIndentationDepthByIndex in tree view controllers.



#### Changes

- Android: Enabled the Application Entry Point to default to Game Activity when creating new Unity projects in Unity 2023.2 or newer. When upgrading from older Unity versions \(2022.2 or older\), the Application Entry Point will default to Activity.

- Burst: Changed Burst Inspector input handling so that arrow keys can be used to select in search boxes.

- Burst: Enabled Burst Inspector's target job load to be asynchronous.

- Editor: Enabled overlays to now be serialized as part of the `OverlayCanvas` state.
    (UUM-20831)

- Input System: Updated Input System package to version 1.5.1.

- Serialization: Removed the ability to load big-endian serialized files \(i.e. files from Unity 1.x versions\).

- SRP Core: Enabled the per-frame reset of VolumeParameters to perform depending on their overrideState.

- XR: Updated AR Foundation and related packages to version 5.0.5.



#### Fixes

- 2D: Fixed a graphical glitch in the Brush Picks overlay when the Tile Palette window is changed from a dockable to floating window.
    (UUM-29537)

- 2D: Fixed a sorting issue when a lower sorted mesh in a chunk is unable to fit in lower sorted Tile due to vertex or index limit, but is able to fit in a future higher sorted Tile.

- 2D: Fixed an issue where the name of a Brush Pick does not automatically update when renamed.
    (UUM-29538)

- 2D: Fixed animation performance failure.
    (UUM-29374)

- 2D: Fixed truncation of path for saving Tile assets when ending is not a file.
    ([UUM-29490](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-multi-drag-and-drop-sprite-asset-creation-location-is-non-deterministic))

- 2D: Prevented a cyclic dependency error when dragging a Palette Prefab to be saved under the same Palette Prefab.
    (UUM-29540)

- 2D: Updated Brush Pick button to use the correct icon.

- AI: Fixed the project from freezing due to a faulty Raycast operation in the navigation system.
    (UUM-28701)

- Android: Enabled calling `Input.location.Start()` to change status to **Initializing immediately** and permission denial will set it to **Failed**.
    (UUM-27609)

- Android: Enabled the unlock image to be set on each lock rather than only on the first.
    ([UUM-21954](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-previous-screen-shown-when-unlocking-a-device))

- Android: Fixed asset packs functionality for GameActivity.
    (UUM-29546)

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed an Editor crash when changing Asset Serialization Mode to Force Binary with the `com.unity.multiplayer.samples.coop` package installed.
    ([UUM-26417](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-collectallscenemanagerandobjectids-when-changing-asset-serialization-mode-to-force-binary))

- Audio: Updated the play-on-awake tooltip on the AudioSource.
    ([UUM-28690](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/misleading-tooltip-is-displayed-when-hovering-the-cursor-on-the-play-on-awake-text-in-the-audio-source-component))

- Build Pipeline: Enabled Renovate to create more than 2 PRs per hour as we sometimes do bulk changes on Bokken images that affect more than 40 images.

- Build Pipeline: Enabled setting UnityCI Directory to the repository path during execution.

- Build Pipeline: Fixed an invalid build path error that triggers when building for WebGL on Windows.
    (UUM-27982)

- Build System: Implemented `DISABLE_PLATFORM_{PLATFORM}` on `UserOverride.jam`.

- Burst: Fixed "An item with the same key has already been added" compiler error that could occur when duplicate field names were present in obfuscated assemblies.

- Burst: Fixed "An item with the same key has already been added" hashing error that could occur if obfuscators changed nested type names to have the same name and different namespaces.

- Burst: Fixed "Failed to find entry-points: Mono.Cecil.AssemblyResolutionException: Failed to resolve assembly" error that was displayed when Burst tried to compile an assembly that had C\# compilation errors.

- Burst: Fixed a code-gen issue where side-effects before a conditional throw would be ignored.

- Burst: Fixed a domain completed stall when switching between debug and release scripting modes when burst compilation is needed for items in the new domain.

- Burst: Fixed a `BadImageFormatException` error that could occur in some player builds.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where Burst managed breakpoints might fail to work, after a domain reload.

- Burst: Fixed Burst compilation error relating to `UnityEngine.Assertions.Assert.Fail` when doing player builds with high stripping settings.

- Burst: Fixed default target CPU for Arm Mac Standalone builds.

- Burst: Fixed inaccurate stacktraces when throwing an exception from Burst in specific cases.

- Burst: Fixed incorrect codegen when having multiple `try`-`finally` blocks inside another `try`-`finally` block \(for example from `foreach` loops\).

- Burst: Fixed incorrect pdb path for AoT dll libraries.

- Burst: Fixed line highlight and register highlight not clearing when Burst Inspector settings change.

- Burst: Fixed possible deadlock when compiling after domain reload.

- Burst: Fixed that some changes made to versioned assemblies wouldn't get picked up and compiled by Burst.

- Burst: Fixed `MethodDecoderException` when trying to call `CompileFunctionPointer` on a nested static method.

- Core: Enabled `JobsUtility.ThreadIndex` and `JobsUtility.ThreadIndexCoun` to now be used in Burst compiled static constructors. Previously, their use would result in a "BC1091: External and internal calls are not allowed inside static constructors" error.
    (UUM-31459)

- Editor: Added the scrollview to the description field in the Scene template dialog.
    ([UUM-25425](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-template-title-section-with-its-functions-becomes-hidden-when-scroll-is-used))

- Editor: Disabled the IL2CPP stack trace lines option for WebGL.
    (UUM-30296)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a4.*

- Editor: Enabled objects to now keep their non-serializable state when reloaded.

- Editor: Enabled only showing local context providers when not in Global Search Window.
    (DOTSE-2000)

- Editor: Enabled shader global values to be taken into account when deciding what to rebake.
    (UUM-27392)

- Editor: Enabled the Save Query dropdown button to work properly after a UI Toolkit framework event refactor.
    ([UUM-30191](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-save-diskette-button-doesnt-work-in-the-search-window))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a6.*

- Editor: Enabled types derived from type with CustomPreview have a custom preview.
    ([UUM-9543](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custompreview-doesnt-work-when-the-type-is-inherited-from-the-specified-type-in-custompreviews-parameters))

- Editor: Enabled updating the SceneProvider accordingly to an additive scene being added or removed.
    ([UUM-25053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-quick-search-window-is-not-showing-objects-in-scenes-when-they-are-loaded-additively-until-a-change-in-the-editor-is-made))

- Editor: Ensured that long titles do not clip the scene icon in the Scene Template Dialog.
    ([UUM-25511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-templates-with-longer-titles-are-displayed-without-the-icons-in-new-scene-window))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that occurs when you set the custom-rolloff-curve to null on an audio source.
    ([UUM-29578](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-audiosource-setcustomrolloffcurve-when-entering-play-mode-with-audiosource-component))

- Editor: Fixed a crash when using text with ImageOnly mode in IMGUI.
    ([UUM-30256](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-scripting-array-length-when-selecting-a-gameobject-from-the-hierarchy))

- Editor: Fixed an ellipsis in the Label column for Search Table.
    ([UUM-25147](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/data-in-the-label-section-is-not-abbreviated-with-dot-dot-dot-when-the-column-is-narrowed))

- Editor: Fixed an issue when destroying animatorControllerPlayable and then accessing some animator functions.
    ([UUM-1228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-playable-destroy))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where replacing an empty property name on a component could cause a crash.
    ([UUM-30800](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-dot-findpropertyindex-causes-crash-in-monobehaviour-dot-onvalidate))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a6.*

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the custom InspectorElement losing its Editor instance when the main inspector selection changes.
    (UUM-27882)

- Editor: Fixed Editor crash when baking an instance with an unassigned material.
    ([UUM-31159](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-when-generating-lighting-on-a-scene-with-a-terrain))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a9.*

- Editor: Fixed Editor version that is added to a bundle when using RecompressAssetBundleAsync after it's been stripped with AssetBundleStripUnityVersion.
    ([UUM-21137](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-version-is-added-to-a-bundle-when-using-recompressassetbundleasync-after-its-been-stripped-with-assetbundlestripunityversion))

- Editor: Fixed EditorWindowTitle so it is now called automatically. Previously, it needed to be initialized explicitly through a call to `EditorWindow.GetLocalizedContent`.
    ([UUM-27557](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorwindowtitle-attribute-does-not-work-when-applied-to-custom-editorwindow))

- Editor: Fixed handling conflicting components during prefab merging.
    ([UUM-20241](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-awakefromloadqueue-invokepersistentmanagerawake-when-opening-a-project))

- Editor: Fixed Highlighter text in project browser when clicking on an object field.
    ([UUM-29709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/highlighter-text-is-misaligned-and-overlapping-when-an-asset-is-highlighted))

- Editor: Fixed occasional Editor crash in batch mode.
    (UUM-22301)

- Editor: Fixed OnRectTransformDimensionsChange so it is now called on Undo.
    ([UUM-16963](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onrecttransformdimensionschange-is-not-called-on-undo-in-prefab-variant))

- Editor: Fixed project browser text so it is now correctly aligned.
    ([UUM-26789](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-names-are-aligned-incorrectly-when-in-project-browser))

- Editor: Fixed recursive layout failure while displaying a SearchQueryAsset in the Search Window Inspector.
    ([UUM-26720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/console-displays-error-layout-update-is-struggling-to-process-current-layout-when-user-selects-saved-empty-search-asset))

- Editor: Fixed shortcut profile delete dialog message overflow in Shortcut Manager.
    ([UUM-28294](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/delete-shortcut-profile-window-does-not-fit-the-size-of-the-profile-title))

- Editor: Fixed styling on the scene template help button.
    ([UUM-27122](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/help-icons-for-the-scene-template-asset-are-displayed-in-different-backgrounds))

- Editor: Fixed the Audio.Thread marker in Profiler window that lasts the whole frame while audio is playing in Windows.
    ([UUM-401](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-audio-dot-thread-marker-in-profiler-window-is-lasting-whole-frame-while-audio-is-playing))

- Editor: Fixed the styling of extra button action bar.
    ([UUM-26518](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-button-hide-should-be-aligned-accordingly-to-select-and-open))

- Editor: Improved the formatting for the context column in Shortcut Manager.
    (UUM-28692)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a5.*

- Editor: Moved the Realtime GI CPU Usage setting to the Quality tab in Project Settings for URP and HDRP.
    ([UUM-28789](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quality-settings-missing-cpu-usage-setting-users-unable-to-tune-realtime-gi-performance))

- Editor: Removed the action kebab menu if in picker mode.
    ([UUM-25013](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preset-deletion-in-select-preset-window-doesnt-work))

- Editor: Renamed `Constants.TargetArchitectures` to `Constants.FilteredTargetArchitectures` and applied correctly filtered data.

- GI: Fixed an error when baking with the GPU lightmapper. Light baking failed with error code 2 \('RenderLightmap' failed with exit code: 2\) when using large lightmaps with unoccupied tiles.
    ([UUM-30520](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightbaker-fails-when-using-2k-lightmaps-with-unoccupied-tiles))

- Graphics: Enabled the texture streaming system to accurately track the size of non-streaming crunched textures.
    (UUM-27512)

- Graphics: Fixed a case where `GraphicsBuffer.UnlockBufferAfterWrite` would take an excessively long time on D3D11.
    (UUM-29029)

- Graphics: Fixed bug with Streaming Virtual Texturing throwing a "The transcoded bitstream was invalid" error that was caused by build pipeline bug corrupting virtual texture regions located in virtual texture files larger than 2GB. When using SVT, it is recommended to rebuild your Player's build in order to get the corrected streaming files  \(GTS and GTP files\) in the Streaming Assets folder.
    (UUM-30987)

- Graphics: Fixed the environment lighting when no adaptive prove volume is present.
    ([UUM-30972](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-apv-all-environment-lighting-sky-gets-removed-when-switching-probe-system-to-probe-volume))

- IL2CPP: Corrected the clipped output from `System.Diagnostics.Debug.WriteLine()`.
    ([UUM-26431](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/system-dot-diagnostics-dot-debug-dot-writeline-fails-to-print-the-first-10-characters-of-a-debug-message-when-used-in-a-uwp-build))

- IL2CPP: Enabled non-blittable types without any reference fields to be pinned. This matches the behavior of .NET Core and changes from the previous behavior of IL2CPP, which matched .NET Framework.
    ([UUM-23102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentexception-error-occurs-in-copy-method-of-nativearray-class-when-building-with-windows-il2cpp))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a bug where referenced assets are unloaded by `Resources.UnloadUnusedAssets()`.
    ([UUM-26883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/referenced-assets-are-unloaded-by-resources-dot-unloadunusedassets-when-used-in-il2cpp-build))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a C++ compilation error when assigning to a ref parameter in shared generic code with constraints.
    (UUM-28821)

- IL2CPP: Fixed a C++ compilation error when structs had static fields with circular type references.
    ([UUM-16351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-fails-when-scripting-backend-is-il2cpp-and-threadstatic-attribute-is-applied-to-circular-structs))

- IL2CPP: Fixed I18N linker error during builds.
    ([UUM-14481](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/i18n-assembly-cannot-be-resolved-in-il2cpp-builds-when-using-the-burst-package))

- IL2CPP: Improved the stability of generated field names.
    (UUM-23162)

- IL2CPP: Marshalled a null value in a delegate field as a null delegate.
    ([UUM-29202](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crashes-when-invoking-astruct-callback))

- License: Fixed an issue where the Editor quits when activating ULF license and the license already exists.
    ([UUM-31031](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-quits-during-license-activation-serial-mismatch))

- Mono: Removed throw from attribute setters generated by profile stubber.
    ([UUM-18689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-using-a-service-locator-to-retrieve-a-static-list-of-classes-doesnt-work-with-il2cpp-in-a-built-player))

- Mono: Removed `!sig->is_inflated` assert from icall wrapper generator.
    ([UUM-27888](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-condition-sig-is-inflated-and-and-sig-has-type-parameters-not-met-when-a-function-pointer-is-used-in-a-generic-method))

- Package: Updated com.unity.services.push-notifications package to version 3.0.1-pre.1. Android SDK Level 33 \(Tiramisu\) support is now available. External Dependency Manager for Unity \(EDM4U\) and Mobile Dependency Resolver \(MDR\) support is now available. Fixed errors appearing in the Editor Play Mode due to platform specific classes instantiating.

- Prefabs: Fixed the Prefab instance so it is now enabled if RevertPropertyOverride is called during OnEnable.
    ([UUM-21119](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-needs-to-be-activated-two-times-to-enable-it-when-using-prefabutility-dot-revertpropertyoverride))

- Shadergraph: Added error feedback on import of graphs with invalid or missing targets, allowing them to be modified and saved.

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where custom mesh selector for master preview would fail to initialize.

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where duplicate serialized blackboard category children in subgraphs would brick the ShaderGraph editor.

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where missing targets were not handled on import.

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where nodes with dynamic vectors would not correctly cache properties for previews.

- Shadergraph: Fixed for \[SGB-466\] and related issues where nodes with warning or error badges would fail to clean up their resources properly and leave the shader graph editor in an error state.

- Shadergraph: Fixed various issues with the Swizzle node.

- UI Toolkit: Added missing support for TreeView reordering, including depth reordering, expansion when hovering an expandable item, and sibling drop marker.
    (UUM-3683)

- UI Toolkit: Disabled foldout elements not being interactable in the inspector.
    (UUM-25372)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a1.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue when adding or removing components with the inspector in debug mode.
    ([UUM-18854](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidoperationexception-is-spammed-when-adding-a-new-component-while-inspector-is-in-debug-mode))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue when renaming a prefab with the inspector in debug mode.
    (UUM-7218)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed changing a script field with the inspector in debug mode.
    ([UUM-14069](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-change-scripts-in-inspector-window-when-in-debug-mode))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed element becoming invisible after a reorder in an animated ListView.
    (UUM-21272)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed exceptions being thrown when entering play mode with the inspector in debug mode.
    ([UUM-22475](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-when-entering-playmode-while-the-debug-inspector-is-enabled))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed items going slightly out of bounds in ListViews.
    ([UUM-28519](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/last-listview-element-size-is-calculated-incorrectly-when-creating-it-through-a-script))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed items in animated lists sometimes disappearing.
    ([UUM-25833](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/element-ui-disappears-and-nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-dragging-off-the-last-or-first-element-from-the-list-in-the-inspector))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed private fields disappearing when entering play mode with the inspector in debug mode.
    ([UUM-20170](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/private-fields-disappear-in-the-inspector-window-when-entering-play-mode-if-the-inspector-window-mode-is-debug))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed reorderable ListView dragging so it no longer breaks after dragging on an value field inside.
    (UUM-29525)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.2.0a7.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the reported TreeView state after a reorder operation.
    ([UUM-3478](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/treeview-does-not-report-correct-state-after-reordering))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the sound on Mac when navigating collection views with keyboard.
    (UUM-26264)

- Universal RP: Fixed color and depth mismatch when scaling is on.
    ([UUM-29397](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/combining-copy-depth-render-scale-and-off-screen-target-throws-error))

- Universal RP: Fixed using `RenderTextureSubElement.Stencil` in URP so it now binds properly.
    ([UUM-9701](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-is-black-when-using-stencil-texture-in-shader))

- URP: Fixed profiling code causing 2-3ms of overhead on URP.
    (UUM-30143)

- URP: Fixed uninitialized SpriteProps in CanvasRenderer for 2D.
    (UUM-18389)

- Web: Added stickyCursorLock API to make cursor lock "sticky" or "unsticky". Sticky cursor lock means that if the browser unlocks the cursor when the user presses the ESC key, the cursor will remain locked in Unity. To match the browser's behavior, users can set the stickyCursorLock to false, which will "unstick" the cursor lock.
    ([UUM-16915](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cursor-dot-lockstate-still-returns-locked-when-esc-is-pressed-in-the-webgl-player-or-editor))

- Windows: Fixed quoting of the command line arguments.
    ([UUM-21600](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/commandline-receives-different-commands-when-passing-through-system-dot-environment-dot-commandline-method))




#### New 2023.2.0a9 Package Changes since 2023.2.0a8

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.burst: [1.8.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.burst@1.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [1.8.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.burst@1.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.inputsystem: [1.5.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [1.5.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.render-pipelines.core: [16.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.core@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [16.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.core@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition: [16.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [16.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition-config: [16.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition-config@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [16.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition-config@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.render-pipelines.universal: [16.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [16.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.shadergraph: [16.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.shadergraph@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [16.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.shadergraph@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.splines: [2.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [2.2.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.visualeffectgraph: [16.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualeffectgraph@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [16.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualeffectgraph@16.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arcore: [5.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arcore@5.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [5.0.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arcore@5.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arfoundation: [5.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arfoundation@5.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [5.0.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arfoundation@5.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arkit: [5.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arkit@5.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [5.0.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arkit@5.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.transport: [1.3.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.transport@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) &#x2192; [1.3.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.transport@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

**Packages added**

- [com.unity.services.matchmaker@1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.matchmaker@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

**Pre-release packages added**

- [com.unity.services.matchmaker@1.1.0-pre.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.matchmaker@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

### Preview of Final 2023.2.0a9 Release Notes

#### Features

- Audio: Added a new AudioRandomContainer asset which lets a user quickly set up a playlist that can be randomized in different ways, with different ways of triggering the sounds. It is useful for most sound use cases, such as footsteps, impacts, weapons, and props. An AudioRandomContainer is played through an AudioSource.

- DX12: Added support for building ray tracing acceleration structures asynchronously on a compute queue. AsyncCompute CommandBuffers can now run `CommandBuffer.BuildRayTracingAccelerationStructure` commands. Added support for RayTracingAccelerationStructure to RenderGraph and Render Graph Viewer.

- Editor: Added an option to Scene View preferences to only refresh the Scene view when the Editor is in focus.

- Editor: Added basic Emoji support.

- Editor: Added basic OpenType font feature support. Currently, only kerning is enabled.

- Editor: Added the ability to bind the keyboard shortcut for making transitions between Animator states.

- Graphics: Added rendererPriority support for BatchRendererGroup.

- Graphics: Added `BatchCullingContext.cullingFlags` to specify whether lightmapped shadow casters should be culled.

- HDRP: Added a visualization of async compute passes and their synchronization points to the Render Graph Viewer.

- HDRP: Added Volume Profile to HD Render Pipeline Asset.

- HDRP: Implemented beer shadow maps for volumetric clouds.

- Package: Removed a deprecated UnityAnalytics event from the Patch User Reporting SDK, and upgraded package dependencies and sample.

- Package Manager: Added **Services** as an entry in the Package Manager side bar.

- Package Manager: Added a new sidebar with a search field that is specific to sections in the Package Manager.

- Package Manager: Added individual scoped registries to the sidebar.

- Package Manager: Added the ability to manage an imported .unitypackage from the Asset Store in **In Project**.

- Package Manager: Added Web3 as a Filter Category in My Assets.

- Package Manager: Reformatted the top toolbar so that you can now see all applied filters.

- Physics: Added `ArticulationBody.jointPosition` pointer lines to the Angular Joint Limits tool gizmo to show the exact position of the joint in scene view.

- Profiler: Added metadata support for AudioClip and Shader in Memory Profiler.

- SpeedTree: Enabled HDRP/Nature/SpeedTree8.shadergraph to now use its Subsurface Map for the Transmission Mask node to remove the unintended light transmission from tree barks and twigs. This change also fixes the overly bright billboard lighting not matching the 3D geometry's lighting.

- UI Toolkit: Added the Emojis Fallback Support field to TextElements and TextFields to control the ordering of where to search for the glyph in the emoji range \(primary font vs global fallback\).

- UI Toolkit: Added UxmlElement and UxmlAttribute attributes. These attributes replace the current UxmlFactory and UxmlTraits when creating custom UI Toolkit elements. It is also now possible to create custom property drawers for fields in the same way as the Inspector.

- Universal RP: Added Default Volume Profile to URP Global Settings.

- Universal RP: Added motion vector support for motion blur postprocess effect. Added **Camera And Objects** option to the MotionBlur volume component.

- Universal RP: Added support for additional directional light cookies.

- URP: Added Volume Profile to Universal Render Pipeline Asset.

- Version Control: Added a project option to support tracking packages that exist on disk outside of the project's root folder.

- VFX Graph: Added support for motion vector in URP.

- VFX Graph: Enabled the creation of URP Decal Particle Output.

- XR: Added Hololens Automation Support.



#### Improvements

- 2D: Added icons to the Clipboard and Brush Pick overlays for Tile Palette when the overlays are collapsed.
    ([UUM-29771](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-brush-pick-and-tile-palette-clipboard-overlay-indicators-in-scene-view-look-the-same))

- 2D: Added the shortcut key to the tooltips for the toggles that activate overlays in the Tile Palette window.

- 2D: Enabled the serialization of TileChangeData.

- 2D: Improved the performance of creating a large number of Tile assets with the Tile Palette window.

- 2D: Improved the performance of opening the Tile Palette window when the Tile Palette references a large number of Tile assets.
    (UUM-26849)

- Android: Enabled adding the minimum aspect ratio.

- Animation: Enabled automatic stripping of any leading or trailing whitespace when editing the name of a state machine parameter via the Animator or Animator Parameters windows.

- Animation: Reduced the cost of building muscle clips, which speeds up `Animator.Awake`.

- Animation: Reduced the number of garbage collection allocations when calling `Animator.GetParameter(int index)` and improved its speed.

- Apple TV: Enabled tvOS to now use a launch screen storyboard.

- Burst: Added a Burst AOT setting for the debug information generated for player builds.

- Burst: Added a SIMD smell test to the Burst Inspector, highlighting ARM or x86-64 SIMD instructions which changes depending on whether they work for packed or scalar inputs.

- Burst: Added a toggle to filter **.Generated** jobs from the Burst Inspector target job list.

- Burst: Added selection of line and highlight of selected line and selected lines register usage.

- Burst: Added support for ChromeOS in Unity versions 2020.3 and 2019.4.

- Burst: Enabled Windows/ARM64 targeting support.

- Burst: Enabled `FunctionPointer<delegate>()::Invoke` usage is now checked and patched to ensure the calling convention is compatible with Burst.

- Documentation: Added Android Project Configuration Manager API documentation.

- Documentation: Added documentation for an API that throws errors for Android Project Configuration Manager.

- Documentation: Improved the Android Project Configuration API documentation.

- Documentation: Improved the documentation for the Android build process order.

- Documentation: Updated Global Illumination documentation to reflect the changes to on demand and auto mode baking.
    (LIGHT-1260)

- Editor: Added a fog fullscreen debug mode to HDRP. This will display the fog that is applied to the opaque geometry in the scene. The fog display can be controlled through the debug exposure.

- Editor: Added line number support for the mixed callstack diagnostic.

- Editor: Added process ID information to the Attach debugger dialog in the Editor.

- Editor: Enabled automatically opening a tab when dragging an object over it.

- Editor: Enabled Leak Detection with stack traces to now group leaks by stack trace, significantly improving the time to report leaks.

- Editor: Enabled Sketchup Importer on Mac ARM platforms.

- Editor: Exposed the resolution and resolution value of the reflection probe within the HD Light Explorer. When a custom resolution is selected, the resolution value becomes editable.

- Editor: Improved memory allocator contention when merging static meshes, which speeds up the process.

- Editor: Improved performance for Text in the editor.

- Editor: Improved the camera preview resizing in the scene views and Graph Tool Foundation.

- Editor: Improved the performance of the `Transform.Find()` API, especially when working with large numbers of children.

- Editor: Improved warnings on GPU Module overheads.

- Editor: Increased the speed of enter playmode \(especially with larger scenes\).

- Editor: Increased the speed of Enter/Exit Play Mode by 3-4% in a sample project.

- Editor: Reduced the cost of outline rendering, which improves the frame rate of the editor when many objects are selected.

- Editor: Reduced the impact of Shader Graph package on performance of domain reloads by making node class cache populate on-demand.

- Editor: Updated Sketchup SDK version to 2023.2.

- Entities Graphics: Added support for using the built-in ParticlesUnlit shader with a MeshRenderer in a subscene.
    (UUM-17812)

- GI: Added a toggle that lets you quickly identify visible backfaces in the scene when using various scene view modes.

- GI: Added display of timely information in the Editor on lightmaps and probes being baked.

- GI: Added hotkeys for opening the lighting window \(**Ctril+9**\) and performing bakes \(**Ctril+Shift+L**\).

- GI: Added light grid shrinking to GPU lightmapper to improve performance in large scenes with many lights tightly clustered in one corner.

- GI: Changed the Lightmap Parameters dropdown in Lighting Settings to a file picker field.

- GI: Decreased the minimum specification of the GPU lightmapper to 2 GB.

- GI: Improved the performance of the GPU lightmapper when using the Balanced baking profile. This enables memory usage to be more predictable when using larger lightmap sizes.

- GI: Improved the robustness of out of memory handling when baking large scenes on 4GB AMD R9 cards.
    (LIGHT-1261)

- GI: Improved the user experience of light bake progress reporting.

- GI: Improved the UX of BakePipeline post processing.

- GI: Moved the baking device and profile selection to a new section at the bottom of the lighting window.

- GI: Moved the generation of GI debug visualizations to a background thread.

- GI: Moved the light probe visualization settings to the Scene view gizmo dropdown.

- GI: Optimized on-demand lightmap baking by compressing and writing lightmap output files in parallel.

- GI: Optimized the post processing file IO by spreading the work over multiple CPU threads \(one thread per file\).

- GI: Redesigned the **Generate Lighting** button in the **Lighting Window** and the **Bake** button in the **Reflection Probe inspector** to have a distinct separator between their main button and dropdown sections.

- GI: Removed the Preview Label on GPU lightmapper.

- GI: Restored LightBaker determinism in relation to OpenRL.

- Graphics: Updated the ASTC compressor to version 4.3 to improve compression speed.

- HDRP: Added Henyey Greenstein evaluation and sampling to fog volume scattering.

- HDRP: Added various optimizations of C\# code.

- HDRP: Decreased the number of Diffusion Profile imported in the HDGlobalSettings Diffusion Profile List when importing the Material Samples.

- HDRP: Improved HDRP Water sample with minor fixes.

- HDRP: Improved the sample import system on SRP packages to import dependencies for each sample.

- HDRP: Updated some shaders to support DOTS instancing.

- IL2CPP: Enabled building with .NET NativeAOT, which reduces the Il2cpp.exe runtime by ~20% on Windows.

- IL2CPP: Enabled UnityLinker to now use Server GC, which reduces its runtime by 15%-20%.

- IL2CPP: Updated the error message that appears when the GenericSharingVisitor encounters an instruction it cannot process.

- IMGUI: Enabled IMGUI to now use TextCore to deal with Ellipsis.

- IMGUI: Removed UTF16 conversion for IMGUI on the native side since we now generate text on the managed side.

- Input: Changed the error message wording for when the Input Manager is not set up correctly.
    ([UUM-26890](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-message-is-insufficient-when-input-is-not-set-up))

- iOS: Modified the iOS/tvOS launch screen to now be shown only by OS, and not shown again by Unity itself.

- Kernel: Improved the performance in heavily run code paths for NativeArray, UnsafeUtility, and AtomicSafetyHandle through inlining.

- Package Manager: Added support for specifying optional path and revision to Git URLs in SCP format.

- Package Manager: Improved the tag UI for git and local packages.

- Particles: Added two new sorting modes for reversed depth.

- Physics 2D: Removed redundant scripting API descriptions in overloads of several Physic2D queries.

- Player: Added a `-native-leak-detection <mode>` command line argument to the Unity Editor and standalone Players. `<mode>` can be **Disabled**, **Enabled**, or **EnabledWithStackTrace**. Stack Traces are only available in the Unity Editor and development builds.

- Scene/Game View: Added a grid size field to the Grid and Snap Settings Overlay toolbar.

- Scene/Game View: Added `EditorToolbarFloatField` to edit float values in overlay toolbars.

- Scripting: Switched path sorting during compilation from an invariant culture compare to an ordinal compare, which speeds up C\# compilation when scripts are changed.

- Serialization: Improved performance of restoring managed objects during a domain reload.

- Serialization: Improved the performance of restoring managed objects during a domain reload.

- Shadergraph: Fixed the NullReferenceException when entering Play Mode with an unfocused Shader Graph window or when closing the Shader Graph Window.
    ([SGB-409](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-at-play-mode-entrance-when-unfocused-shader-graph-tab-is-opened))

- Shadergraph: Increased the speed of rename operations on properties, keywords, or dropdowns in large graphs.
    (SGB-382)

- Shadergraph: Increased the speed of setting blackboard values in large graphs.
    (SGB-384)

- Shaders: Added support on Metal for vprog having void return type.

- Shaders: Enabled RenderPass framebuffer fetch \(UNITY_DECLARE_FRAMEBUFFER_INPUT_, UNITY_READ_FRAMEBUFFER_INPUT\) to now generate shader code that works both on Apple Silicon \(where it will read color input\) and older intel macOS devices \(where it will read from the copy done by render pass\).

- Shaders: Enabled URP RenderPass framebuffer fetch \(FRAMEBUFFER_INPUT_, LOAD_FRAMEBUFFER_INPUT\) to now generate shader code that works both on Apple Silicon \(where it will read color input\) and older intel macOS devices \(where it will read from the copy done by render pass\).

- Shaders: Reduced the time spent in the asset post processing code for shader assets, which speeds up the import of shaders.

- SRP Core: Changed the parameters of Default Volume Profile to be evaluated once when it is changed instead of being evaluated every frame.

- SRP Core: Reduced the number of shader variants related to HDR Output.

- SRP Core: Unified the Create, Clone and Ensure workflows for RenderPipelineGlobalSettings.

- Terrain: Enabled loading of brushes for the Terrain Inspector to now defer creating full-resolution brush textures until the brush is being used, making the Terrain Inspector faster to open and use less memory.

- Terrain: Enabled setting names for brush textures and thumbnails, so that they can be clearly recognised in the Memory Profiler.

- Text: Improved Text performance for both IMGUI and UITK.

- TextCore: Implemented missing automation tests for dynamic font asset feature. Most of the tests were already implemented but were cleaned up and moved to correct test suite.

- UI Elements: Added allowAdd and allowRemove attributes to ListView. It also has onAdd, onRemove, overridingAddButtonBehavior, makeHeader, makeFooter, and makeNoneElement callbacks.

- UI Toolkit: Added missing keyboard navigation support for left and right keys in TreeView.

- UI Toolkit: Improved the performance of tree expansion of UI Toolkit TreeViews.

- Universal RP: Added sampling clamping functions to prevent out of viewport sampling in URP.

- VFX Graph: Reduced the import cost of VFX Graph objects, especially when importing many objects at once.

- Windows: Enabled the generated projects to now target the Visual Studio version you open them in instead of Visual Studio 2015, when you use the **Generation Visual Studio Solution** option to build for Windows.



#### API Changes

- 2D: Added: TileAnimationFlags.UnscaledTime.

- 2D: Added: TileBaseEditor with an implementation for RenderStaticPreview, which allows users who extend from the TileBase class to have a simple default asset preview for their extended classes of TileBase.

- 2D: Added: Tilemap.loopEndedForTileAnimation callback when Animated Tiles have reached the end of their animation loop if it has the LoopOnce flag set.

- Android: Added: Added new Android Project Configuration API that allows to copy arbitrary files to the Gradle project.

- Android: Added: Expose UnityPlayer.invokeOnMainThread, a helper function for delegating callbacks on game loop thread.

- Android: Deprecated: Deprecate OnPostGenerateGradleAndroidProject in favor of OnModifyAndroidProjectFiles.

- Animation: Added: ClearKeys and CopyFromAPI in AnimationCurve.
    ([UUM-20456](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-volume-curves-have-impact-even-if-they-are-disabled), [UUM-20458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-revert-property-doesnt-work-on-curves))

- Apple TV: Added: Added identifier for 3rd generation Apple TV 4K.

- Asset Pipeline: Added: AssetDatabase.GetScriptableObjectsWithMissingScriptCount and AssetDatabase.RemoveScriptableObjectsWithMissingScript for finding and removing ScriptableObject instances in assets which are missing their scripts. \(Thank you @Xelnath for the request\!\).

- Asset Pipeline: Added: AssetDatabase.TryGetAssetFolderInfo which can be used to know if a certain path is being tracked by the AssetDatabase and can handle import dependencies and asset imports.

- Build Pipeline: Added: "Dedicated Server optimizations" option that strips all shaders from Dedicated Server builds.
    (MTT-5538)

- Build Pipeline: Obsoleted: methods on BuildPipeline class will now trigger build error rather than warning and implementation is removed. These APIs have been marked obsolete since Unity 5.

- Core: Added: new overloads of GameObject.CompareTag and Component.CompareTag which take a new TagHandle type. These new overloads can be more efficient, especially when comparing many objects with the same tag.

- Core: Added: overload to NativeArrayUnsafeUtility.ConvertExistingDataToNativeArray which takes a Span as input.

- Core: Added: `JobsUtility.ThreadIndexCount` returns the maximum number of job workers that can work on a job at the same time. The job system will create a number of job worker threads that will be no greater than the number of logical CPU cores for the platform. However, since arbitrary threads can execute jobs via work stealing we allocate extra workers which act as temporary job worker threads. `JobsUtility.ThreadIndexCount` reflects the maximum number of job worker threads<br>
    plus temporary workers the job system will ever use. As such, this value is useful for allocating buffers which should be subdivided evenly between job workers since `JobsUtility.ThreadIndex` and `NativeSetThreadIndexAttribute` will never return a value greater than `JobsUtility.ThreadIndexCount`.
    (UUM-29945)

- Core: Added: `JobsUtility.ThreadIndex` returns the index for the current thread when executing a job, otherwise 0. When multiple threads are working on a parallel job at once, no two threads will have the same index. The range is \[0, `JobsUtility.ThreadIndexCount`\). The value returned when called from within a job is the same as the one stored in a job member decorated with `Unity.Collections.LowLevel.Unsafe.NativeSetThreadIndexAttribute`, otherwise 0.
    (UUM-29945)

- Documentation: Changed: Fixed duplicated inherited members in CustomRenderTexture class API documentation.

- Editor: Added: Added `EditorApplication.isFocused` property indicating the cached state of the Editors focus.

- Editor: Added: Exposes `EditorApplication.focusChanged` event which fires when the Editor gains and loses focus.

- Editor: Removed: AssetDatabase.RefreshDelayed\(\) method has been removed.

- Editor: Removed: AssetDatabase.RefreshDelayed\(ImportAssetOptions options\) method has been removed.

- Editor: Removed: Bool AssetDatabase.TryGetGUIDAndLocalFileIdentifier\(int instanceID, out string guid, out int localId\) method has been removed.

- Editor: Removed: Bool AssetDatabase.TryGetGUIDAndLocalFileIdentifier\(Object obj, out string guid, out int localId\) method has been removed.

- GI: Added: API for accessing global light probe data used in rendering as well as for individual scenes.

- GI: Deprecated: LightProbes.cellCount, LightProbes.count and LightProbes.positions have been deprecated.

- Graphics: Added: Added AsyncGPUReadbackRequest.forcePlayerLoopUpdate.

- Graphics: Added: an `AreaLight` member to the `Rendering.ShadowMapPass` enum.

- Graphics: Added: API for modifying positions of LightProbes objects.

- Graphics: Added: CanvasRenderer.GetMesh API, analogous to CanvasRenderer.SetMesh has been Added.

- Graphics: Added: Inline Ray Tracing \(Ray Query/DXR 1.1\) support to all rasterization shader stages. Added new methods for binding an acceleration structure \(Shader.SetGlobalRayTracingAccelerationStructure, CommandBuffer.SetGlobalRayTracingAccelerationStructure\). Added new pragma require inlineraytracing support in rasterization shader stages. Added new built-in global shader keyword UNITY_DEVICE_SUPPORTS_INLINE_RAY_TRACING to be used with multi_compile.

- Graphics: Changed: Added a new read-only `Light.dilatedRange` member. Before this addition, for area lights, if you set `Light.range`, and then immediately read it back, it would return a different value. This is because area lights have a larger effective range since the source is an area, and not a single point. Now, the `Light.range` always returns the same value you set, and the newly added `Light.dilatedRange` returns the range dilated to account for the area size.

- Graphics: Changed: Deprecated `Area` in favor of `Rectangle` in the `LightType` enum. Added `Box`, `Pyramid`, and `Tube` members to the same enum.

- Graphics: Deprecated: `Light.shape`. This information is now unified into `Light.type`.

- HDRP: Deprecated: `HDLightType`, `HDLightTypeAndShape`, `SpotLightShape`, and `AreaLightShape`. HDRP directly uses Light.type in native Unity, and handles the upgrade automatically.

- Input: Added: Expose Input.mousePositionDelta.

- iOS: Added: identifiers for iPad models released in 2022.

- Networking: Removed: The legacy networking API \(Network, NetworkView, etc\), which was marked as obsolete in 2018, has now has been deleted.

- Package: Deprecated: com.unity.subsystemregistration is being deprecated.

- Package Manager: Obsoleted: `Client.ResetToEditorDefaults` is now obsolete.

- Package Manager: Removed: Removed the obsolete `UnityEditor.PackageManager.PackageInfo.status` field and `UnityEditor.PackageManager.PackageStatus` enum.

- SRP Core: Added: Added new VolumeManager API to manage default volume profiles.

- SRP Core: Added: Added UnityEditor.Rendering.VolumeProfileUtils class containing utilities related to managing Default Volume Profiles.

- SRP Core: Added: Added VolumeManager.Initialize\(\)/Deinitialize\(\) that Render Pipeline is expected to call from its constructor/destructor.

- SRP Core: Added: Common C\# &amp; Shader Code for Scalable Temporal Post-Processing Upscaler.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added API to know when a panel may need to be rendered to use in conjunction with on demand rendering.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added canChangeExpandedState to tree view controllers to allow users to disable items expansion.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added drag and drop API for collection views; canStartDrag, setupDragAndDrop, dragAndDropUpdate and handleDrop, similar to what exists in IMGUI.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added GetIndentationDepth and GetIndentationDepthByIndex in tree view controllers.

- UI Toolkit: Added: callback for receiving all changes inside a panel.

- UI Toolkit: Added: VisualElement methods HandleEventBubbleUp and HandleEventTrickleDown.<br>
    Added FocusController method IgnoreEvent.

- UI Toolkit: Obsoleted: EventBase method PreventDefault. Not upgradable automatically.

- UI Toolkit: Obsoleted: PropagationPhase values AtTarget, DefaultAction, and DefaultActionAtTarget. Not upgradabe automatically.

- UI Toolkit: Obsoleted: VisualElement methods ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget. Not upgradable automatically.

- Universal RP: Removed: Removed RenderTargetHandle and Scriptable Renderer backwards compatibility with RenderTargetHandle and RenderTargetIdentifiers. RTHandles to be used.

- Version Control: Removed: Removed Collab and its dependency from the package.



#### Changes

- Android: Enabled the Application Entry Point to default to Game Activity when creating new Unity projects in Unity 2023.2 or newer. When upgrading from older Unity versions \(2022.2 or older\), the Application Entry Point will default to Activity.

- Android: Fixed the visibility of some APIs so that they are no longer publicly visible.

- Android: Upgraded Android Gradle Plugin version to 7.3.1, the Gradle version to 7.6, and the Kotlin Gradle Plugin version to 1.7.22.

- Build Pipeline: Implemented -filelist when running libtool for Mac and iOS builds to prevent command lines from becoming too long.

- Build System: Enabled the need for the TargetFramework and/or TargetFrameworks property to be set when defining a CSharpProgram2.

- Burst: Changed Burst Inspector input handling so that arrow keys can be used to select in search boxes.

- Burst: Changed the Burst Inspector source location comments from `===` to either `;` or `#`, depending on the given assembly kind.

- Burst: Changed the horizontal code focus in the Burst Inspector to only scroll when branches fill more than half the space.

- Burst: Changed the target job list in the Burst Inspector to an expandable tree view, instead of a simple list.

- Burst: Enabled Burst Inspector's target job load to be asynchronous.

- Burst: Enabled Burst to now only generate full debug information when **Native Debug Mode Compilation** and script debug information is enabled.

- Burst: Improved how optimisation remarks are displayed in the **LLVM IR Optimisation Diagnostics** tab in Burst Inspector.

- DX12: Changed the default format to a native resource format instead of a typeless format.

- Editor: Added an object field for meshes so they can be clicked and made visible in the Project window for the Frame Debugger.

- Editor: Added missing padding between HelpBox icon and text contents.

- Editor: Changed the default value of `GizmoUtility.iconSize` from 0.03 to 0.01, making 3D gizmos smaller by default.
    (UUM-30061)

- Editor: Enabled overlays to now be serialized as part of the `OverlayCanvas` state.
    (UUM-20831)

- Editor: Moved the Mesh Preview and list of meshes to a separate foldout for the Frame Debugger.

- GI: Moved the **Recalculate Environment Lighting** setting to **Project Settings** &gt; **Editor**. This setting was previously in the **Lighting Window** &gt; **Workflow**.

- GI: Moved the toggle for displaying lightmap resolution in scene view modes to a panel that is displayed when the relevant modes are active.

- GI: Removed the **Show lightmap resolution overlay** from the Project settings window. Use the toggle in the scene view instead.

- GI: Split the contextual panel shown for various GI scene view debug modes into two panels - one for color legends and one for settings. Changed colors and descriptions used in the GI contributor and receiver scene view debug mode.

- HDRP: Added new scenes using Water System in the HDRP Samples.

- HDRP: Changed references of Diffusion Profile in the HDRP Wizard check by the ones in the HDRP Package.

- HDRP: Changed the default light probe system to APV.

- HDRP: Enabled Extend Shadow Culling in Raytracing by default.
    (UUM-21784)

- HDRP: Modified Dynamic Resolution System to use Fixed Scaling Steps.

- Input System: Updated Input System package to version 1.5.1.

- Kernel: Changed `NativeArray.Dispose` to be consistent when disposing of an uninitialized container.

- Package Manager: Renamed the **My Assets** Web3 category filter in the Package Manager Window to **Decentralization**.

- Serialization: Removed the ability to load big-endian serialized files \(i.e. files from Unity 1.x versions\).

- SRP Core: Enabled the per-frame reset of VolumeParameters to perform depending on their overrideState.

- Tests: Replaced tests in `CodebaseTests.cs` with a Yamato job that can run on each PR.

- UI Toolkit: Changed Event propagation rules for ExecuteDefaultAction, ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget, and PreventDefault:<br>
    - Calling StopPropagation\(\) on an event will now also prevent ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget from being called.<br>
    - Calling PreventDefault\(\) will behave like calling both StopPropagation and focusController.IgnoreEvent, so it will also stop execution of the registered callbacks further down the propagation path.<br>
    - Both ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget are now executed in-between registered callbacks during the BubbleUp phase, immediately before any callback on the current target.<br>
    - All standard control event handling was moved to registered event callbacks or HandleEventBubbleUp overrides, and can be prevented by calling StopPropagation during the TrickleDown phase. This includes triggering the Contextual menu. The exception to this rule is behavior that's part of an event's PostDispatch method, which includes switching focus on Pointer down or navigation.<br>
    - It is strongly recommended to replace ExecuteDefaultAction and ExecuteDefaultActionAtTarget overrides for a HandleEventBubbleUp override instead, and PreventDefault for StopPropagation.

- UI Toolkit: Changed the Event propagation rules for composite roots, making them behave more similarly to regular elements.

- UI Toolkit: Changed the Event propagation rules for Mouse compatibility events:<br>
    - Mouse compatibility events are now dispatched alongside the Pointer event associated with them, immediately following them during each step of the TrickleDown and BubbleUp propagation phases.<br>
    - Calling StopPropagation on either the pointer event or its associated compatibility mouse event will now stop the propagation of both events after the current propagation step is completed.

- UI Toolkit: Changed the number of FocusEvents and BlurEvents sent when changing a focused element if the target has at least one composite root parent.

- Universal RP: Disabled the ability for decals to enqueue passes when running on unsupported APIs, such as OpenGL or GLES3, instead of displaying the magenta error.

- Version Control: Updated branding from **Plastic SCM** to **Unity Version Control**.<br>
    Improved offline experience by disabling the plugin when there is no internet connection.

- Xbox: Moved the Package Encryption setting from Player Settings to Build Settings. Added a warning when the encryption is set to **Submission**.

- XR: Changed the filesystem location of the serialized Vulkan pipeline cache on Quest.

- XR: Updated AR Foundation and related packages to version 5.0.4.

- XR: Updated AR Foundation and related packages to version 5.0.5.

- XR: Updated com.unity.xr.openxr package version to 1.7.0.

- XR: Updated the Oculus XR Plugin package version to 3.2.3.



#### Fixes

- 2D: Enabled generating a default Sprite rect for textures that are too small to be tesselated.

- 2D: Enabled users to filter Brush Picks ignoring case.
    (UUM-28970)

- 2D: Fixed a crash on GenerateTextureAndSpriteRectDataFromAtlasMask when clicking "Pack Preview" after packing an Asset into Sprite Atlas.
    ([UUM-25481](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-generatetextureandspriterectdatafromatlasmask-when-clicking-pack-preview-after-packing-an-asset-into-sprite-atlas))

- 2D: Fixed a crash when a user loads a Tilemap with a TilemapCollider2D and CompositeCollider2D with an invalid Sprite.
    ([UUM-29132](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tilemapcollider2d-generatepathsfromsprite-when-opening-specific-project))

- 2D: Fixed a graphical glitch in the Brush Picks overlay when the Tile Palette window is changed from a dockable to floating window.
    (UUM-29537)

- 2D: Fixed a sorting issue when a lower sorted mesh in a chunk is unable to fit in lower sorted Tile due to vertex or index limit, but is able to fit in a future higher sorted Tile.

- 2D: Fixed an issue where the name of a Brush Pick does not automatically update when renamed.
    (UUM-29538)

- 2D: Fixed an issue where the Name/FieIds in a Sprite meta file would be reordered when an importer setting is changed.
    ([UUM-22494](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-version-control-importing-certain-textures-with-multiple-sprites-cause-arbitrary-changes-in-namefileidtable-mapping-in-meta-file))

- 2D: Fixed animation performance failure.
    (UUM-29374)

- 2D: Fixed truncation of path for saving Tile assets when ending is not a file.
    ([UUM-29490](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-multi-drag-and-drop-sprite-asset-creation-location-is-non-deterministic))

- 2D: Prevented a cyclic dependency error when dragging a Palette Prefab to be saved under the same Palette Prefab.
    (UUM-29540)

- 2D: Updated Brush Pick button to use the correct icon.

- AI: Fixed the inaccurate shape of NavMeshObstacles that prevent agents from avoiding them properly. This only applies to Windows builds.
    ([UUM-9814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-agent-moves-into-obstacles-when-moving-towards-the-destination-in-builds))

- AI: Fixed the project from freezing due to a faulty Raycast operation in the navigation system.
    (UUM-28701)

- Android: Disabled `--fastdeploy` during application installation as it works incorrectly in some cases.
    ([UUM-28376](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-is-not-updated-on-device-when-its-signed-with-a-different-key))

- Android: Enabled 'AMOTION_EVENT_AXIS_TOUCH_MINOR/AMOTION_EVENT_AXIS_TOUCH_MAJOR' axes for Game Activity to fix `Input.GetTouch.radius` APIs.
    (UUM-28698)

- Android: Enabled calling `Input.location.Start()` to change status to **Initializing immediately** and permission denial will set it to **Failed**.
    (UUM-27609)

- Android: Enabled different maximum MSAA samples count for different graphics formats.
    ([UUM-25096](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-8x-16x-msaa-are-displayed-as-non-supported-when-device-gpus-do-support))

- Android: Enabled the unlock image to be set on each lock rather than only on the first.
    ([UUM-21954](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-previous-screen-shown-when-unlocking-a-device))

- Android: Enabled `CursorLockMode.Locked` support so it now works correctly on Android 8.0 or higher. For more information, see Android's API View.requestpointercapture.
    (UUM-888)

- Android: Fixed a freeze when Unity requests runtime permission. This affects the behavior of WebCamTexture, Microphone, and OBB loading: they will fail on the first attempt due to missing permissions \(no webcam/microphone found and no obbs loaded\).
    (UUM-21838)

- Android: Fixed a garbage collection deadlock in AndroidJavaProxy.
    (UUM-15968)

- Android: Fixed an issue where the Accelerometer values are not updated when the ASENSOR_TYPE_LINEAR_ACCELERATION sensor is disabled on certain Samsung devices.
    ([UUM-20754](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-input-dot-acceleration-doesnt-get-the-acceleration-of-some-devices-when-disabling-input-dot-gyro))

- Android: Fixed an issue where `Network.OperationalStatus` would always return Unknown for Android.
    ([UUM-19683](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-network-dot-operationalstatus-method-returns-unknown-status-for-all-network-interfaces-when-observing-their-operational-state))

- Android: Fixed asset packs functionality for GameActivity.
    (UUM-29546)

- Android: Fixed GPU skinning on the remaining Adreno devices.
    ([UUM-20108](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-skinnedmeshrenderer-doesnt-render-mesh-when-using-snapdragon-865-sm8250-cpu-devices))

- Android: Fixed shader code generation when using SV_Coverage input.
    (UUM-26807)

- Android: Fixed the assert 'setpriority\(PRIO_PROCESS, 11121, 0\) returning -1 when it runs against GameActivity.
    (UUM-26765)

- Android: Fixed the Gradle build failing on Mac when it's placed in a folder name that contains parentheses, if Optimized Frame Pacing or GameActivity is enabled.
    (UUM-25255)

- Android: Fixed the plugin path resolving for GameActivity.
    (UUM-19908)

- Android: Fixed the Time.deltaTime values so they are now stable on Android devices.
    ([UUM-10244](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-time-dot-deltatime-values-arent-stable-on-specific-devices))

- Android: Replaced **DIR_UNITYPROJECT** in `settingsTemplate.gradle`.
    (UUM-27090)

- Animation: Fixed an issue where unexpected MonoBehaviors would remain on the GameObject in a preview scene.
    ([UUM-21605](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-missingcomponentexception-is-thrown-when-clicking-on-prefab-with-canvasrenderer-component))

- Animation: Fixed the default values for animation curve parameters on Volume Components being shared with the current interpolated value on the volume stack.
    ([UUM-20456](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-volume-curves-have-impact-even-if-they-are-disabled))

- Asset Import: Enabled memory leak diagnostic switches to now be passed through to the asset import workers.

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed a case of Missing Script errors that could occur after leaving safe mode.

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed an Editor crash when changing Asset Serialization Mode to Force Binary with the `com.unity.multiplayer.samples.coop` package installed.
    ([UUM-26417](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-collectallscenemanagerandobjectids-when-changing-asset-serialization-mode-to-force-binary))

- Asset Pipeline: Removed use of auto keyword in LMDB library.
    (UUM-29394)

- Audio: Fixed a bug when Unity Audio is disabled where `SystemInfo.supportsAudio` would return true on some platforms and false on others. This will not always return false.
    ([UUM-16017](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-systeminfo-dot-supportsaudio-inconsistency-when-built))

- Audio: Fixed corrupt audio playing for the first time in the first launch, when audio mixer is assigned at runtime.
    ([UUM-19696](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-audioclip-played-through-an-audiomixer-provides-different-sounds-of-the-same-audio-when-playing-for-the-first-time))

- Audio: Updated the play-on-awake tooltip on the AudioSource.
    ([UUM-28690](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/misleading-tooltip-is-displayed-when-hovering-the-cursor-on-the-play-on-awake-text-in-the-audio-source-component))

- Build Pipeline: Added a warning message when `BuildPlayerOptions.assetBundleManifestPath` is not set with the expected file.

- Build Pipeline: Enabled Renovate to create more than 2 PRs per hour as we sometimes do bulk changes on Bokken images that affect more than 40 images.

- Build Pipeline: Enabled setting UnityCI Directory to the repository path during execution.

- Build Pipeline: Fixed a BuildPipeline issue for the Android platform and MacStandalone builds which asks for a name and directory, despite having the last saved location details. This is triggered by using Ctrl+B \(Windows\) or Cmd+B \(macOS\).
    ([UUM-19897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-and-run-asks-for-a-name-and-directory-when-it-was-previously-provided))

- Build Pipeline: Fixed an invalid build path error that triggers when building for WebGL on Windows.
    (UUM-27982)

- Build Pipeline: Fixed Player Build fails.
    ([UUM-1205](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-fails-until-scrolling-scenes-in-build-in-build-settings))

- Build Pipeline: Fixed the null reference errors when loading user scripting objects from ContentFiles.
    (UUM-24989)

- Build System: Enabled consistency of .NET SDK in build and publish operations in CSharpPrograms2. Updated `Microsoft.NET.Test.Sdk` to version 17.4.0 in` Unity.BuildSystem.Tests` to resolve Newtonsoft.Json version conflict.

- Build System: Implemented `DISABLE_PLATFORM_{PLATFORM}` on `UserOverride.jam`.

- Burst: Enabled Burst to now update its list of assembly paths if they change. For instance, the list of assemply paths would update if you add packages that contain precompiled assemblies.

- Burst: Enabled enum values cast to integers in a format string to correctly output the integer value.

- Burst: Fixed "An item with the same key has already been added" compiler error that could occur when duplicate field names were present in obfuscated assemblies.

- Burst: Fixed "An item with the same key has already been added" hashing error that could occur if obfuscators changed nested type names to have the same name and different namespaces.

- Burst: Fixed "Failed to find entry-points: Mono.Cecil.AssemblyResolutionException: Failed to resolve assembly" error that was displayed when Burst tried to compile an assembly that had C\# compilation errors.

- Burst: Fixed ***Assertion failed on expression: "exception == SCRIPTING_NULL"** errors and Editor crash when the project path contains multi-byte Unicode characters.

- Burst: Fixed **Plain Without Debug Information** outputting assembly with debug information.

- Burst: Fixed a BC1361 error when trying to compile large static read-only arrays.

- Burst: Fixed a bug in a small set of managed fallback versions of intrinsics, where the bitwise representation of float values would not be maintained.

- Burst: Fixed a code-gen issue where side-effects before a conditional throw would be ignored.

- Burst: Fixed a compilation error when using `CompileFunctionPointer` from Burst in code compiled with Roslyn on  .NET 7+.

- Burst: Fixed a compiler AccessViolationException that could occur when compiling two or more types with the same name but different source assemblies.

- Burst: Fixed a compiler crash when invoking a `FunctionPointer` based on a generic delegate in DOTS Runtime.

- Burst: Fixed a domain completed stall when switching between debug and release scripting modes when burst compilation is needed for items in the new domain.

- Burst: Fixed a hashing error that could occur when a struct implements a generic interface multiple times with different generic parameters.

- Burst: Fixed a namespace collision that could occur between `Unity.Burst.Cecil.dll` and the `com.unity.nuget.mono-cecil` package.

- Burst: Fixed a Player build error that could occur if the project contains an assembly with a name that doesn't match the assembly filename.

- Burst: Fixed a stall that could occur at Editor shutdown.

- Burst: Fixed a visual artifact in Burst Inspector where a block of enhanced code was cut at the bottom.

- Burst: Fixed a `BadImageFormatException` error that could occur in DOTS Runtime builds.

- Burst: Fixed a `BadImageFormatException` error that could occur in some player builds.

- Burst: Fixed an AoT linking error on Windows Link based linkers when file paths \(typically user names/home folders\) contain non-ASCII characters.

- Burst: Fixed an error when calling the direct call method from a background thread without having previously called a `BurstCompiler` API from the main thread.

- Burst: Fixed an internal compiler error that occurred when creating debug metadata from certain obfuscated DLLs.

- Burst: Fixed an internal compiler error when implcitly converting an array to a `Span`.

- Burst: Fixed an issue that causes function pointers to point to the wrong Burst function, if a domain reload occurs and a compilation started before the reload is completed soon after.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where Burst managed breakpoints might fail to work, after a domain reload.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where the definition order of overloaded methods with function pointer parameters would decide which overload was actually being used.

- Burst: Fixed ARM vector registers so they are now highlighted.

- Burst: Fixed Burst compilation error relating to `UnityEngine.Assertions.Assert.Fail` when doing player builds with high stripping settings.

- Burst: Fixed Burst compilation on QNX Arm.

- Burst: Fixed Burst tree view items leading to a wrong job if some jobs where hidden from view by filter or similar.

- Burst: Fixed crashes on 32bit CPUs when an entry point with byvalue paramaters was called when using dispatch \(multiple supported CPU targets\).

- Burst: Fixed default target CPU for Arm Mac Standalone builds.

- Burst: Fixed inaccurate stacktraces when throwing an exception from Burst in specific cases.

- Burst: Fixed incorrect codegen when having multiple `try`-`finally` blocks inside another `try`-`finally` block \(for example from `foreach` loops\).

- Burst: Fixed incorrect pdb path for AoT dll libraries.

- Burst: Fixed line highlight and register highlight not clearing when Burst Inspector settings change.

- Burst: Fixed possible deadlock when compiling after domain reload.

- Burst: Fixed that some changes made to versioned assemblies wouldn't get picked up and compiled by Burst.

- Burst: Fixed the **Callee/caller attribute ABI did not match\!** error that could occur in certain Player builds when calling an entry point that had at least one struct-by-value parameter.

- Burst: Fixed the **LLVM IR Optimisation Diagnostic** tab in Burst Inspector so it is no longer blank if **Native Debug Mode Compilation** is enabled.

- Burst: Fixed the Burst Inspector sometimes throwing an `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` when copying without color-tags from a colored assembly.

- Burst: Fixed the inspector job tree view splitting jobs with '.' in their parameters.

- Burst: Fixed the managed fallback implementation of `Sse4_2.cmpestrs`.

- Burst: Fixed the module verification errors when using overloaded functions as function pointers.

- Burst: Fixed `MethodDecoderException` when trying to call `CompileFunctionPointer` on a nested static method.

- Core: Enabled `CullResults.ComputeSpotShadowMatricesAndCullingPrimitives` to now output culling planes derived from the projection matrix.

- Core: Enabled `JobsUtility.ThreadIndex` and `JobsUtility.ThreadIndexCoun` to now be used in Burst compiled static constructors. Previously, their use would result in a "BC1091: External and internal calls are not allowed inside static constructors" error.
    (UUM-31459)

- Core: Fixed an error when clearing lighting.

- Core: Fixed an error when opening a Probe Adjustment Volume.

- Documentation: Updated API documentation for Mathf and Quaternion.

- DX12: Fixed a case where vsync is off to allow tearing, such as on DX11.
    ([UUM-30237](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/directx12-different-behaviour-to-dx11-when-vsync-is-disabled-in-editor))

- DX12: Fixed a crash due to copying sampler descriptors.
    (UUM-29343)

- DX12: Fixed a crash when RenderDoc is attached to a scene with an invalid pipeline state.
    (UUM-22630)

- DX12: Fixed a crash where command lists were not being cleaned up.
    (UUM-27446)

- DX12: Fixed `GetNextFrameValue()` in DX12 native rendering plugins.
    ([UUM-23065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getnextframefencevalue-always-returns-1))

- Editor: Added a restriction to `SetParent()` to prevent a crash.
    ([UUM-12399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-rebuildtransformhierarchy-when-setting-a-transform-parent-to-assetbundle))

- Editor: Added support for property paths with brackets.
    (DOTSE-2003)

- Editor: Added the scrollview to the description field in the Scene template dialog.
    ([UUM-25425](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-template-title-section-with-its-functions-becomes-hidden-when-scroll-is-used))

- Editor: Added tooltip support to UnityEvent header label.
    ([UUM-16433](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tooltip-prefix-is-ignored-when-used-with-unityevent))

- Editor: Disabled math expressions on Constrain Proportion Scale multi-selection and updated the relevant documentation.
    ([UUM-21958](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/constrained-fields-dont-work-as-supposed-to-when-using-numeric-field-special-function-expressions-on-transform-components-scale-field-on-multiple-gameobjects-at-the-same-time))

- Editor: Disabled the RegisterObjectSelectorWithInvalidId test failing with debugallocator.
    (UUM-22302)

- Editor: Enabled all samples to be loaded at once without assembly name collisions.

- Editor: Enabled DefaultFetchLabel to use the actual label value if it exists.
    (DOTSE-1995)

- Editor: Enabled GameObjects from the 31st layer to be rendered when `Camera.cullingMask` is set to **Everything**.
    ([UUM-2698](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-from-31st-layer-are-not-rendered-when-camera-dot-cullingmask-is-set-to-everything))

- Editor: Enabled Gradle file search to use RegEx when looking for Play library dependencies, which identifies dependencies included with both double or single quotes.
    (UUM-29110)

- Editor: Enabled Leak Detection after all DomainUnload events are handled. This reduces the number of false-positive leaks detected if memory is disposed in a DomainUnload event handler.
    (DOTS-7616)

- Editor: Enabled Leak Detection in player builds during the ProcessExit event.

- Editor: Enabled objects to now keep their non-serializable state when reloaded.

- Editor: Enabled only showing local context providers when not in Global Search Window.
    (DOTSE-2000)

- Editor: Enabled prevention of AsyncGPUReadback requests accumulation when the Editor is inactive.
    ([UUM-19169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-with-asyncgpureadback-class-in-the-script-leaks-memory-when-the-editor-is-running-in-the-background))

- Editor: Enabled shader global values to be taken into account when deciding what to rebake.
    (UUM-27392)

- Editor: Enabled the Editor to stay in focus when closing multiple windows in succession.
    ([UUM-27245](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-goes-out-of-focus-when-closing-player-settings-and-build-settings))

- Editor: Enabled the MaterialProperty Range to display with a slider and an editable TextField.
    (DOTSE-2008)

- Editor: Enabled the previously selected editor tool to now get selected when deselecting a terrain.

- Editor: Enabled the progress bar to display on domain reload in Linux.
    (UUM-27077)

- Editor: Enabled types derived from type with CustomPreview have a custom preview.
    ([UUM-9543](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custompreview-doesnt-work-when-the-type-is-inherited-from-the-specified-type-in-custompreviews-parameters))

- Editor: Enabled updating the SceneProvider accordingly to an additive scene being added or removed.
    ([UUM-25053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-quick-search-window-is-not-showing-objects-in-scenes-when-they-are-loaded-additively-until-a-change-in-the-editor-is-made))

- Editor: Ensured that long titles do not clip the scene icon in the Scene Template Dialog.
    ([UUM-25511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-templates-with-longer-titles-are-displayed-without-the-icons-in-new-scene-window))

- Editor: Fixed a bug with animation preview.
    ([UUM-27517](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/object-keeps-the-state-of-the-animation-frame-when-exiting-animation-preview-mode))

- Editor: Fixed a case where missing nested Prefabs would break the import of outer Prefabs. All Prefabs will now be reimported due to this fix.
    ([UUM-24836](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2023-dot-1-importer-fails-on-a-particular-prefab-after-upgrading-versions))

- Editor: Fixed a crash observed in a HDRP sample project on the Standalone Player.
    ([UUM-20176](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-template-standalone-player-crashes-after-a-few-seconds))

- Editor: Fixed a crash on shutdown when using the CLI option `-cacheServerWaitForUploadCompletion`.

- Editor: Fixed a crash that occurs when you set the custom-rolloff-curve to null on an audio source.
    ([UUM-29578](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-audiosource-setcustomrolloffcurve-when-entering-play-mode-with-audiosource-component))

- Editor: Fixed a crash when dragging game view in and out of the docked view on Linux with Mesa drivers.
    ([UUM-16015](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-amd-undocking-the-game-view-crashes-the-editor))

- Editor: Fixed a crash when using text with ImageOnly mode in IMGUI.
    ([UUM-30256](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-scripting-array-length-when-selecting-a-gameobject-from-the-hierarchy))

- Editor: Fixed a Drag and Drop to parent folder when the parent contains a child folder with the same name.
    ([UUM-11707](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-and-dropping-a-uss-file-to-a-folder-in-the-project-window-moves-the-file-to-a-subfolder))

- Editor: Fixed a DX11 Standalone crash when closing the application.
    (UUM-20507)

- Editor: Fixed a memory leak in UI Toolkit.
    ([UUM-16365](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-ui-documents-are-not-unloaded-correctly-when-switching-scenes))

- Editor: Fixed a performance regression when loading Prefabs with missing Assets.
    (UUM-25812)

- Editor: Fixed a potential crash when you select non-GameObjects during a domain reload.

- Editor: Fixed a regression that changed the default behaviour of animators on disabled.
    (UUM-27229)

- Editor: Fixed a Windows issue where resizing a window draws black.
    ([UUM-24720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-resizing-a-secondary-window-with-native-titlebars-draws-black))

- Editor: Fixed an Editor crash that can happen when editing terrain.

- Editor: Fixed an ellipsis in the Label column for Search Table.
    ([UUM-25147](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/data-in-the-label-section-is-not-abbreviated-with-dot-dot-dot-when-the-column-is-narrowed))

- Editor: Fixed an exception when using Renderer2D with FullScreenPassRendererFeature.
    ([UUM-25396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentnullexception-value-cannot-be-null-dot-error-when-using-the-post-processing-feature-full-screen-pass-renderer-feature-together-with-the-2d-renderer))

- Editor: Fixed an issue in the Frame Debugger to enable scrolling in the window to work when the Mesh Preview is being used.

- Editor: Fixed an issue in the Frame Debugger with errors that appear when you enable the debugger when it was docked with the Game Window.
    ([UUM-17193](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-frame-debugger-window-doesnt-open-and-throws-errors-when-docked-with-game-window))

- Editor: Fixed an issue so you are now able to select chosen settings when editing them in the **Request Authorization on App Launch** or **Enable Push Notifications** menus.
    ([UUM-14777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mobile-notification-unable-to-select-wanted-settings-when-editing-them-in-the-request-authorization-on-app-launch-or-enable-push-notifications-menus))

- Editor: Fixed an issue when destroying animatorControllerPlayable and then accessing some animator functions.
    ([UUM-1228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-playable-destroy))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where a test body would be skipped under certain conditions regarding domain reload.

- Editor: Fixed an issue where scripted importer override could cause infinite imports.
    ([UUM-26859](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-hangs-opening-a-project-when-the-2d-animation-package-is-removed))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the **Uncategorized** category filter would not apply correctly to parameterized tests with a category in the fixture.
    ([DSTR-699](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-category-attribute-doesnt-take-effect-when-the-values-attribute-is-present))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with animators where the root bone would be reset for humanoid in edge cases with the pose playable.
    ([UUM-26509](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animated-model-translated-down-when-interrupting-a-transition))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the custom InspectorElement losing its Editor instance when the main inspector selection changes.
    (UUM-27882)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the initialization of raytracing which could fail during certain frames.
    (UUM-26885)

- Editor: Fixed an OS key binding exception in ShortcutManager.
    ([UUM-4125](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-keys-show-up-with-incorrect-keycodes-and-throw-errors-when-attempting-to-reassign-shortcuts-to-them))

- Editor: Fixed Editor version that is added to a bundle when using RecompressAssetBundleAsync after it's been stripped with AssetBundleStripUnityVersion.
    ([UUM-21137](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-version-is-added-to-a-bundle-when-using-recompressassetbundleasync-after-its-been-stripped-with-assetbundlestripunityversion))

- Editor: Fixed EditorWindowTitle so it is now called automatically. Previously, it needed to be initialized explicitly through a call to `EditorWindow.GetLocalizedContent`.
    ([UUM-27557](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorwindowtitle-attribute-does-not-work-when-applied-to-custom-editorwindow))

- Editor: Fixed flickering of the icons while auto-expanding in the Hierarchy.
    ([UUM-29429](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-item-is-flickering-when-dragging-over-item-and-auto-expansion-happens))

- Editor: Fixed handling conflicting components during prefab merging.
    ([UUM-20241](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-awakefromloadqueue-invokepersistentmanagerawake-when-opening-a-project))

- Editor: Fixed handling msaa resolve in Frame Debugger when connected to Meta Quest over display link.
    ([UUM-1552](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-quest-2-using-the-frame-debugger-camera-dot-render-commands-are-displayed-in-red-and-black-when-msaa-is-activated))

- Editor: Fixed Highlighter text in project browser when clicking on an object field.
    ([UUM-29709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/highlighter-text-is-misaligned-and-overlapping-when-an-asset-is-highlighted))

- Editor: Fixed issue where -nographics command line argument was not being forwarded to the Asset Import Workers.

- Editor: Fixed issue with baking Environment Occlusion following a Probe bake.

- Editor: Fixed issue with lingering imports when CopyAsset was called inside StartAssetEditing/StopAssetEditing block.
    (UUM-29360)

- Editor: Fixed jumping of intensity slider values in Color Picker HDR.
    (UUM-27978)

- Editor: Fixed occasional Editor crash in batch mode.
    (UUM-22301)

- Editor: Fixed OnRectTransformDimensionsChange so it is now called on Undo.
    ([UUM-16963](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onrecttransformdimensionschange-is-not-called-on-undo-in-prefab-variant))

- Editor: Fixed project browser text so it is now correctly aligned.
    ([UUM-26789](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-names-are-aligned-incorrectly-when-in-project-browser))

- Editor: Fixed ProjectBrowser delete confirmation dialog not showing up.
    (UUM-29454)

- Editor: Fixed recursive layout failure while displaying a SearchQueryAsset in the Search Window Inspector.
    ([UUM-26720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/console-displays-error-layout-update-is-struggling-to-process-current-layout-when-user-selects-saved-empty-search-asset))

- Editor: Fixed ReorderableList element culling when drawing with GUI rotation or scaling applied.
    ([UUM-10761](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-doesnt-render-list-contents-when-using-guiutility-dot-scalearoundpivot))

- Editor: Fixed shortcut profile delete dialog message overflow in Shortcut Manager.
    ([UUM-28294](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/delete-shortcut-profile-window-does-not-fit-the-size-of-the-profile-title))

- Editor: Fixed styling on the scene template help button.
    ([UUM-27122](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/help-icons-for-the-scene-template-asset-are-displayed-in-different-backgrounds))

- Editor: Fixed the Audio.Thread marker in Profiler window that lasts the whole frame while audio is playing in Windows.
    ([UUM-401](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-audio-dot-thread-marker-in-profiler-window-is-lasting-whole-frame-while-audio-is-playing))

- Editor: Fixed the corrupt Animation Curve preview when the time range is less than 1.
    ([UUM-27045](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationcurve-field-preview-displays-an-additional-curve-in-inspector-when-its-curve-time-is-less-or-greater-than-1))

- Editor: Fixed the EnumField not updating the value label when calling `Init` and the value was the same.

- Editor: Fixed the EnumField updating the label when calling `SetValueWithoutNotify` and the value had not changed.
    ([UUM-28904](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inconsistent-behavior-of-enumfield-initialization-when-an-enum-type-is-used-as-a-generic-type))

- Editor: Fixed the Input Manager for views that are re-enabled while playmode is still running.
    (MTT-5037)

- Editor: Fixed the Inspector Transform Component foldout so it now responds to input on the top half.
    ([UUM-16138](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transform-component-doesnt-collapse-when-pressing-on-the-top-pixels-of-the-component))

- Editor: Fixed the prefab override indicator not being shown when the component was overridden.
    ([UUM-3473](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-or-misplaced-prefab-override-indicator-on-some-components-in-inspector))

- Editor: Fixed the Shift modifier so that it can now use SceneView tool shortcuts.
    ([UUM-21938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-shift-key-prevent-the-use-of-sceneview-tool-shortcuts))

- Editor: Fixed the styling of extra button action bar.
    ([UUM-26518](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-button-hide-should-be-aligned-accordingly-to-select-and-open))

- Editor: Fixed the URL for the Scene Template documentation.

- Editor: Fixed Vulkan shaders that use shadow map 2D array textures.
    ([UUM-17756](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-texture2d-array-shadow-does-not-work-when-built-for-android-with-vulkan-api))

- Editor: Fixed `EditorWindows` receiving `SoftDelete` command when the Edit/Delete shortcut is not bound to the Delete key.
    (UUM-5139)

- Editor: Fixed `PlayerSettings.SetAdditionalIl2CppArgs` not being respected.
    ([UUM-25446](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-argument-doesnt-get-passed-when-exporting-the-project))

- Editor: Improved progress reporting for **Generate Lighting**.
    ([UUM-28515](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightbaker-progress-reporting-is-broken))

- Editor: Moved the Realtime GI CPU Usage setting to the Quality tab in Project Settings for URP and HDRP.
    ([UUM-28789](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quality-settings-missing-cpu-usage-setting-users-unable-to-tune-realtime-gi-performance))

- Editor: Removed a warning about mismatching mipmap limits when using a region-based CopyTexture.
    ([UUM-21771](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unnecessary-amounts-of-warnings-are-logged-when-using-graphics-dot-copytexture))

- Editor: Removed an unnecessary "cannot be multi-edited" message in the Inspector.
    ([UUM-10473](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-components-that-are-only-on-some-of-the-selected-objects-cannot-be-multi-edited-appears-in-inspector-even-after-deselecting-multiple-objects))

- Editor: Removed an unnecessary cbuffer in DOTS_INSTANCING_ON variant.
    (UUM-26107)

- Editor: Removed the action kebab menu if in picker mode.
    ([UUM-25013](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preset-deletion-in-select-preset-window-doesnt-work))

- Editor: Renamed `Constants.TargetArchitectures` to `Constants.FilteredTargetArchitectures` and applied correctly filtered data.

- Editor: The **Preferences** &gt; **Jobs** &gt; **Leak Detection Level** setting will reset from Enabled With Stack Trace to Enabled when the Unity Editor is restarted. The setting will persist across domain reloads. The level can be set programmatically using `UnsafeUtility.SetLeakDetectionMode`.
    (DOTS-7615)

- Editor: Updated the error message shown in the Inspector when using the sprite skin provider with GPU skinning. It now informs users that GPU skinning is not supported by the shadow system.
    (UUM-18815)

- GI: Added geometry warnings for invalid meshes in LightBaker.

- GI: Fixed an error when baking with the GPU lightmapper. Light baking failed with error code 2 \('RenderLightmap' failed with exit code: 2\) when using large lightmaps with unoccupied tiles.
    ([UUM-30520](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightbaker-fails-when-using-2k-lightmaps-with-unoccupied-tiles))

- GI: Fixed an issue where lightmaps are lost when entering playmode, switching scenes, and exiting playmode.
    ([UUM-29735](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightmap-is-unassigned-when-entering-play-mode-switching-scene-and-exiting-play-mode))

- GI: Fixed an issue where lightmaps would be swapped when entering playmode when the **Reload Scene** option is disabled.
    ([UUM-21437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multiscene-lightmaps-are-swapped-when-entering-the-play-mode-for-the-first-time-after-loading-a-scene-when-reload-scene-is-disabled))

- GI: Fixed an issue with Light Explorer filtering when many lights are present.
    ([UUM-30672](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-explorer-search-loses-focus-when-typed-into))

- GI: Fixed the total bake time so it is no longer truncated in the Editor and API.
    ([UUM-22720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bake-time-total-is-getting-truncated))

- GI: Fixed the wrong material extraction during light baking, when using materials with triplanar UV projection.
    (LIGHT-1259)

- GI: Improved the BakePipeline progress reporting in the Editor UI.

- Graphics: Added an error message when enabling restricted keywords on a Material.
    ([UUM-3576](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-vkgetinstanceprocaddr-and-drawbuffersbatchmodeenabling-with-keyword-instancing-on-when-using-vulkan-opengles-and-metal))

- Graphics: Added GetVisiblePositions to TrailRenderer.
    ([UUM-21893](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trailrenderer-dot-getpositions-returns-invisible-points))

- Graphics: Enabled BatchCullingContext to now only contain receiver planes for lights where `useViewFrustumForShadowCasterCull` is true \(the default\).

- Graphics: Enabled the lifetime of temporary pointers in BatchRendererGroup to be tied to frame completion.
    (UUM-27302)

- Graphics: Enabled the texture streaming system to accurately track the size of non-streaming crunched textures.
    (UUM-27512)

- Graphics: Enabled throwing an ArgumentNullException if null is passed in as a parameter to Unwrapping.GeneratePerTriangleUV.
    ([UUM-4614](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-unwrapping-custom-generatepertriangleuvimpl-injected-when-passing-null-to-unwrapping-dot-generatesecondaryuvset))

- Graphics: Fixed a case where `GraphicsBuffer.UnlockBufferAfterWrite` would take an excessively long time on D3D11.
    (UUM-29029)

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when loading a zero-sized Texture2D asset.
    ([UUM-9343](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-importing-font-material-asset))

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when the swapchain creation would fail if the  window is not ready at an engine boot.<br>
    This fix enables using the offscreen swapchain while loading finishes and creates a real swapchain.

- Graphics: Fixed an issue where Vulkan robustBufferAccess was mistakenly enabled.
    (UUM-29326)

- Graphics: Fixed bug with Streaming Virtual Texturing throwing a "The transcoded bitstream was invalid" error that was caused by build pipeline bug corrupting virtual texture regions located in virtual texture files larger than 2GB. When using SVT, it is recommended to rebuild your Player's build in order to get the corrected streaming files  \(GTS and GTP files\) in the Streaming Assets folder.
    (UUM-30987)

- Graphics: Fixed caustics rendering so water now works on AMD.
    ([UUM-21350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-caustics-are-not-rendered-on-amd-gpus))

- Graphics: Fixed glitches on macOS when the rendering path is set to deferred.
    ([UUM-21567](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/m1-glitches-and-graphical-artifacts-are-appearing-when-rendering-path-is-set-to-deferred-using-the-built-in-render-pipeline))

- Graphics: Fixed intermittent Vulkan crash in XR caused by accessing empty backbuffer.
    (XRQA-1060)

- Graphics: Fixed present callbacks so they are now called correctly when the GfxDeviceClient is set to not be serializing \(ST threading mode\).
    (UUM-25836)

- Graphics: Fixed some paths of eye masking in Vulkan multi-view rendering.
    (UUM-912)

- Graphics: Fixed the behaviour of the staticShadowCaster flag when using BatchRendererGroup with cached shadow maps.

- Graphics: Fixed the environment lighting when no adaptive prove volume is present.
    ([UUM-30972](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-apv-all-environment-lighting-sky-gets-removed-when-switching-probe-system-to-probe-volume))

- Graphics: Fixed the missing Lens Flare permutation.
    (UUM-19982)

- Graphics: Removed the deprecation of SceneRenderPipeline and limited its behaviour until a replacement is proposed.
    ([UUM-11126](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deprecated-scenerenderpipeline-script-does-not-mention-any-alternatives-for-setting-up-specific-render-pipelines-during-scene-loading))

- Graphics Tests: Updated the bokken images for the graphics tests.

- HDRP: Added a missing node to detect underwater pixels.
    (UUM-22011)

- HDRP: Added API to sync simulation time.
    ([UUM-21622](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-theres-no-way-to-sync-simulation-time-across-water-surface-for-multiplayer))

- HDRP: Added DecalShaderGraphGUI.SetupDecalKeywordsAndPass back.

- HDRP: Enabled path tracing to now produce correct results when dynamic resolution is enabled.
    (UUM-23315)

- HDRP: Fixed a glitch in one frame in the Editor when using path tracing.
    (UUM-22917)

- HDRP: Fixed a serialization issue affecting other objects.

- HDRP: Fixed an error with water and dynamic pass culling.

- HDRP: Fixed an exception on the first frame when using water scripting interactions.
    (UUM-28748)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue that placed an upper limit on the total number of segments drawn by the High Quality Line Renderer.

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where High Quality Line instances were not being drawn in back to front order.

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where Refraction happened on a very small distance for ocean when there were only ripples.
    ([UUM-26886](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-refraction-happens-on-very-small-distance-for-ocean-when-theres-only-ripples))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue with Mac and HDR so it now shows correct results when HDR is enabled.
    (UUM-26282)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue with ray tracing initialization when switching between render pipeline assets.
    (UUM-24692)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue with specifying how much memory gets allocated for High Quality Line Rendering.

- HDRP: Fixed error when having more than 64 deformers.
    (UUM-27183)

- HDRP: Fixed HDSceneDepth triggering errors for uninitialized values.
    (UUM-21185)

- HDRP: Fixed jittering when rendering objects after post process with TAA and Dynamic resolution enabled.

- HDRP: Fixed OSX Support for High Quality Lines.

- HDRP: Fixed several issues for High Quality Line Rendering that were discovered on the "Enemies" production.

- HDRP: Fixed the albedo and specular color override so it is now considered as sRGB.
    (UUM-23268)

- HDRP: Fixed the angle attenuation of spot lights. Previously, the angle attentuation did not take the light radius hack into account, which caused issues when objects are close to a light.

- HDRP: Fixed the diffusion profile list upgrade.

- HDRP: Fixed the exposure for SSR debug rendering.
    ([UUM-19575](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-screen-space-reflections-debug-is-not-working))

- HDRP: Fixed the foam generator so it is now relative to GameObject scale.
    (UUM-20903)

- HDRP: Fixed the initial mask extent value for water surfaces.
    (UUM-20904)

- HDRP: Fixed the label and improved the documentation for After Post Process depth test flag to provide more detail about Depth Test being automatically disabled in some cases.

- HDRP: Fixed the low resolution transparents using Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-21628](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-buffers-sampling-in-shadergraph-is-broken-when-using-low-resultion-pass))

- HDRP: Fixed the raytraced reflections for box lights so they are no longer cut off if the range is too small.
    ([UUM-21442](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-boxlight-reflections-looks-incorrect-in-rtx))

- HDRP: Fixed the shadow culling planes for box-shaped spot lights.

- HDRP: Fixed the time determinism for water surfaces.
    ([UUM-22814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-simulation-speed-in-dependent-on-framerate-with-the-recorder))

- HDRP: Fixed the unsupported high quality line rendering targets for the Shader Graph inspector.
    (UUM-26179)

- HDRP: Fixed the usage of `FindObjectsByType` so it now uses `FindObjectsSortMode.None`.

- HDRP: Fixed the usage of `HDMaterial.ValidateMaterial` for materials created from ShaderGraphs.

- HDRP: Fixed the world position offset in water CPU simulation.
    (UUM-21873)

- HDRP: Fixed water caustics tiling factor which caused issue when the camera was moving.
    (UUM-26246)

- HDRP: Fixed Water System Resolution property names.
    (UUM-28960)

- HDRP: Improved the reflection probe debug.

- IL2CPP: Corrected the clipped output from `System.Diagnostics.Debug.WriteLine()`.
    ([UUM-26431](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/system-dot-diagnostics-dot-debug-dot-writeline-fails-to-print-the-first-10-characters-of-a-debug-message-when-used-in-a-uwp-build))

- IL2CPP: Emitted code that compiles for array element access from null in a non-development player build.
    ([UUM-597](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-unity-fails-to-build-when-using-faulty-function-with-an-element-being-called-from-null-array))

- IL2CPP: Enabled display of the name of each thread in native and third party profilers.
    (UUM-21136)

- IL2CPP: Enabled non-blittable types without any reference fields to be pinned. This matches the behavior of .NET Core and changes from the previous behavior of IL2CPP, which matched .NET Framework.
    ([UUM-23102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentexception-error-occurs-in-copy-method-of-nativearray-class-when-building-with-windows-il2cpp))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a bug where IL2CPP returns an invalid pointer on P/Invoke methods that returns a non-blittable struct by reference.
    ([UUM-20790](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-returns-a-pointer-to-the-stack-value-which-points-to-invalid-memory-when-generating-code))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a bug where referenced assets are unloaded by `Resources.UnloadUnusedAssets()`.
    ([UUM-26883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/referenced-assets-are-unloaded-by-resources-dot-unloadunusedassets-when-used-in-il2cpp-build))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a C++ compilation error when assigning to a ref parameter in shared generic code with constraints.
    (UUM-28821)

- IL2CPP: Fixed a C++ compilation error when structs had static fields with circular type references.
    ([UUM-16351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-fails-when-scripting-backend-is-il2cpp-and-threadstatic-attribute-is-applied-to-circular-structs))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a compile error when you enable bitcode for an Android build.
    ([UUM-25113](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-undefined-symbol-error-is-thrown-when-building-with-the-fembed-bitcode-flag))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a crash when the memory profiler is enabled.
    ([UUM-18685](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-crashes-on-il2cpp-vm-class-getvirtualmethod-when-building-and-running-a-project-using-il2cpp-scripting-backend))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a potential .cpp file name collision when two assembly names differ only by a number at the end of their name.
    ([UUM-27951](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-can-fail-when-2-assembly-definitions-have-similar-names))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a race condition when creating generic class metadata.
    (UUM-26516)

- IL2CPP: Fixed an intermittent crash in the thread pool implementation when the socket no longer exists during a HTTP request.
    (UUM-21671)

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue that did not allow access to special folders in Windows Store apps.
    ([UUM-17611](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-access-knownfolders-dot-objects3d-folder-using-system-dot-io-api-when-deployed-on-hololens-2))

- IL2CPP: Fixed I18N linker error during builds.
    ([UUM-14481](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/i18n-assembly-cannot-be-resolved-in-il2cpp-builds-when-using-the-burst-package))

- IL2CPP: Fixed IL2CPP build crashes when capturing memory snapshot.
    ([UUM-21880](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-crashes-when-capturing-memory-snapshot))

- IL2CPP: Fixed the incorrect custom attribute lookup on a field derived in a base class from a different assembly.
    ([UUM-27593](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-throws-errors-when-using-custom-attributes))

- IL2CPP: Fixed the InvalidCastException being thrown when you serialize jagged arrays using BinaryFormatter.
    ([UUM-23156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-invalidcastexception-is-thrown-when-serializing-jagged-arrays-using-binaryformatter))

- IL2CPP: Fixed the Mac build error from multiple identically named files in the same directory during a build.
    ([UUM-26386](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-macos-build-fails-with-system-dot-argumentexception-when-building-with-il2cpp-stack-trace-information-with-line-numbers))

- IL2CPP: Fixed `Monitor.IsEntered` returning true when the monitor is entered on a different thread from the current thread.
    ([UUM-22329](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/monitor-dot-isentered-checks-if-any-thread-holds-the-lock-when-using-il2cpp))

- IL2CPP: Improved the performance of getting current 100ns ticks value on Windows.

- IL2CPP: Improved the stability of generated field names.
    (UUM-23162)

- IL2CPP: Marshalled a null value in a delegate field as a null delegate.
    ([UUM-29202](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crashes-when-invoking-astruct-callback))

- IL2CPP: Reverted **Skip Metadata Initialization for Well known Types** to fix performance regression.
    (UUM-25793)

- IMGUI: Fixed an issue with text used in Gizmos. It now has the correct size, position, and clipping.
    ([UUM-28063](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-name-does-not-scale-and-is-not-centered-within-icon))

- iOS: Added cutouts for the iPhone 14 family.
    ([UUM-22474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-iphone-14-devices-crash-when-portrait-upside-down-orientation-is-forced))

- iOS: Fixed a memory leak when using `GL.Clear` in MonoBehaviour Update/LateUpdate.
    ([UUM-8457](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-memory-leaks-when-calling-gl-dot-clear-from-update-slash-late-update))

- Kernel: Fixed a potential crash at app shutdown.
    (UUM-26528)

- License: Fixed an issue where the Editor quits when activating ULF license and the license already exists.
    ([UUM-31031](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-quits-during-license-activation-serial-mismatch))

- Linux: Fixed the Linux Editor so it no longer ignores a SIGTERM signal.
    ([UUM-24705](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-ignores-sigterm-signal-when-using-command-kill))

- Linux: Fixed the Mouse position so it is now correct when playing the build on a multiple monitor setup in full screen mode.
    ([UUM-26497](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-mouse-position-is-incorrect-when-playing-build-on-a-multiple-monitor-setup-in-full-screen-mode))

- Linux: Fixed the Null Reference Exception thrown when you rotate in Scene View and move the cursor outside the boundary.
    ([UUM-21895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-nullreferenceexception-thrown-when-rotating-in-scene-view-and-moving-the-cursor-outside-of-the-screen-boundaries))

- Linux: Fixed the panel focus switching when arrow keys are pressed while in Play Mode.
    ([UUM-21632](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-panel-focus-gets-switched-when-the-arrow-keys-are-pressed-while-in-play-mode))

- macOS: Fixed Display.colorBuffer and Display.depthBuffer on macOS metal for main display.
    (UUM-18382)

- macOS: Removed an empty gap on each vertical screen of the macOS Player when rendering fullscreen on Macs with a notch the first time the application is started.

- Mono: Added `get_win32_restore_stack` implementation for ARM64 in Mono.
    (UUM-20941)

- Mono: Corrected the CustomMarshal attribute definition for the `Control::Font` property in `System.Windows.Forms.dll` in the AOT profile.

- Mono: Fixed a crash when using ConditionalWeakTable.
    ([UUM-25411](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crashes-on-garbagecollector-collectincremental-when-entering-the-play-mode))

- Mono: Fixed the Mono default interface methods with protected virtual class methods.
    ([UUM-22228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mono-calls-wrong-methods-when-using-default-interface-methods))

- Mono: Removed throw from attribute setters generated by profile stubber.
    ([UUM-18689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-using-a-service-locator-to-retrieve-a-static-list-of-classes-doesnt-work-with-il2cpp-in-a-built-player))

- Mono: Removed `!sig->is_inflated` assert from icall wrapper generator.
    ([UUM-27888](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-condition-sig-is-inflated-and-and-sig-has-type-parameters-not-met-when-a-function-pointer-is-used-in-a-generic-method))

- Mono: Updated the IL2CPP and Mono code.

- Networking: Fixed an issue that could prevent UDP sockets from being created on Windows when TDI filters were installed.

- Package: Updated com.unity.services.push-notifications package to version 3.0.1-pre.1. Android SDK Level 33 \(Tiramisu\) support is now available. External Dependency Manager for Unity \(EDM4U\) and Mobile Dependency Resolver \(MDR\) support is now available. Fixed errors appearing in the Editor Play Mode due to platform specific classes instantiating.

- Package: Updated Sequences \(com.unity.sequences\) to 2.1.0-pre.1.

- Package Manager: Added a popup when a loaded DLL fails to be removed.
    ([UUM-25904](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-isnt-able-to-be-completely-removed-from-project))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where a project with a large number of git dependencies would have resolution errors with error code 429 \(Too Many Requests\). The number of concurrent requests is six by default, but it can be changed by setting the `UPM_GIT_MAX_CONCURRENT_COMMANDS` environment variable.
    ([UUM-6049](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rpc-failed-http-429-curl-22-the-requested-url-returned-error-429-error-message-appears-when-executing-git-commands))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where local and git packages are not visible in `Unity Registry` and `My Registries`.
    ([UUM-20549](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-is-removed-from-the-scoped-registry-when-installing-the-same-package-from-a-local-disk))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue which prevented starting UPM when a `package.json` file containing `"type": "module"` was present on any of the ancestor directories.
    (UUM-18512)

- Package Manager: Packages are deleted after changing the **My Assets** cache location to non-default when the asset is updated in Package Manager.
    ([UUM-25376](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packages-are-deleted-after-changing-the-my-assets-cache-location-to-non-default-when-the-asset-is-updated-in-package-manager))

- Particles: Fixed a crash due to access of potentially released job memory.

- Particles: Fixed a null reference exception when undoing Particle System changes.
    ([UUM-25452](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-at-reverting-changes-after-resetting-multiple-particle-systems))

- Particles: Fixed a Particle System rendering corruption.
    ([UUM-21106](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-visualisation-corruption-occurs-when-rendering-particles-to-render-texture))

- Particles: Fixed the race condition when scheduling C\# particle jobs.

- Physics: Fixed a BoxCollider warning messages not being printed when Scene Reloading was enabled.
    ([UUM-28396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-boxcolliders-does-not-support-negative-scale-or-size-warning-appears-only-when-enter-play-mode-options-is-enabled))

- Physics: Fixed a crash while entering Play Mode with a cloth component that hasn't been edited.
    ([UUM-16091](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-clothscene-preparescene-when-entering-play-mode))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where setting autoConfigureConnectedAnchor to false caused connectedAnchor to reset to 0.
    ([UUM-27820](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/configurable-joints-dont-work-when-in-player-on-a-vr-project))

- Physics: Fixed an OnCollision messages that was not being sent when the collider had 'hasModifiableContacts' property explicitly set to false.
    ([UUM-28909](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/collision-events-are-not-reported-when-hasmodifiablecontacts-on-a-collider-is-set-to-false))

- Physics: Fixed capsule jittering and not reaching sleep state.
    ([UUM-17977](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/capsule-gameobjects-are-jittering-when-they-are-supposed-to-be-sleeping))

- Physics: Fixed incorrect capsule and convex mesh collision detection.
    ([UUM-7391](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics-dot-computepenetration-detects-a-collision-with-capsulecollider-if-meshcollider-convex-is-enabled-when-there-is-no-collision))

- Physics: Updated documentation to include the new behavior of Rigidbody interpolation and extrapolation.
    ([UUM-26857](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spawned-gameobject-position-is-not-updated-when-rigidbody-interpolation-is-used))

- Physics 2D: Enabled a single path PolygonCollider2D to alway uses a clockwise winding internally to give consistent results when used in a CompositeCollider2D.
    ([UUM-28561](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics2d-dot-overlappoint-does-not-work-when-go-with-the-compositecollider2d-component-has-overlapping-children))

- Physics 2D: Enabled both OnTriggerExit2D and OnCollisionExit2D to be called when a scene is unloaded if required. This only works when `Physics2D.callbacksOnDisable` is active.
    ([UUM-28747](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerexit2d-not-called-when-colliders-are-disabled-due-to-getting-unloaded))

- Player: Enabled Native Leak Detection to now work in Player builds. Previously, it would not report upon ProcessExit.

- Player: Fixed an edge-case where Native Leak Detection may fail to look up the stack trace of a leaked allocation.

- Player: Fixed an issue where non persistent Components were not kept alive when attachec to a persistent GameObjects.
    ([UUM-11111](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-accessing-transform-component-after-calling-resources-dot-unloadunusedassets))

- Player: Fixed timestamps argument.

- Prefabs: Disabled IMGUI ReorderableList elements when previewing overridden values PrefabMode InContext.
    ([UUM-13618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-list-contains-the-wrong-number-of-elements-when-opening-it-through-a-prefab-variant))

- Prefabs: Fixed the Prefab instance so it is now enabled if RevertPropertyOverride is called during OnEnable.
    ([UUM-21119](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-needs-to-be-activated-two-times-to-enable-it-when-using-prefabutility-dot-revertpropertyoverride))

- Prefabs: Fixed the prefab mode so it now sorts renderer components accordingly.

- Profiler: Fixed callstacks so they are now shown when enabled on an autoconnected profiler.
    (UUM-18687)

- Profiler: Fixed the synchronicity of CPU and GPU durations and timestamps on different platforms.
    (PROF-2395)

- Scene/Game View: Added the ability for snap toggle to now enable both grid and increment snapping.
    (PBLD-53)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed a warning when adding a new Scene View tab in a 2D template project.
    (UUM-28978)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an `ISupportOverlays` implementation incorrectly showing Overlays targeting implementing classes.
    (UUM-26841)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed crashes in GetFilteredRendererNodes when trying to pick an object with an active BatchRendererGroup.

- Scene/Game View: Fixed the inconsistent sizing for horizontal and vertical Overlay toolbar elements.

- Scene/Game View: Fixed the rectangle selection conflicts with scene view tools.
    ([UUM-22218](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-deselect-while-rotating-the-scene-view-camera-using-alt-plus-lmb-combination-when-the-console-is-populated))

- Scripting: Fixed a possible crash when handling asmdef compiled assemblies that have been copied into the Project.

- Scripting: Fixed the timeout when running the runtime performance tests on iPhoneSE.
    (UUM-21798)

- Serialization: Fixed a boxedValue throwing an exception if you try to set a string value null.

- Serialization: Fixed a Player crash when opening the Player build.
    ([UUM-21897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-crash-when-opening-the-player-build))

- Shadergraph: Added error feedback on import of graphs with invalid or missing targets, allowing them to be modified and saved.

- Shadergraph: Fixed a bug where the nodes could not be created after entering then exiting play mode.
    ([SGB-439](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-new-node-is-not-created-and-the-nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-error-is-printed-when-pressing-create-node-after-entering-and-exiting-play-mode))

- Shadergraph: Fixed a typo in the Hyperbolic Cosine Node in Shader Graph.
    (SGB-7)

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where custom mesh selector for master preview would fail to initialize.

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where duplicate serialized blackboard category children in subgraphs would brick the ShaderGraph editor.

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where missing targets were not handled on import.

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where nodes with dynamic vectors would not correctly cache properties for previews.

- Shadergraph: Fixed for \[SGB-466\] and related issues where nodes with warning or error badges would fail to clean up their resources properly and leave the shader graph editor in an error state.

- Shadergraph: Fixed various issues with the Swizzle node.

- Shaders: Enabled shaders to reimport correctly when installing a package that only has shader include files.
    (UUM-16415)

- Shaders: Fixed material copy-paste breaking the material by adding a CopyMatchingPropertiesFromMaterial.
    ([UUM-22634](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copy-pasting-material-properties-between-different-materials-throws-exceptions))

- Shaders: Fixed SV_PrimitiveID on Metal.
    ([UUM-22593](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-shader-is-broken-when-using-sv-primitiveid))

- SRP Core: Fixed an IES Importer issue producing incorrect results.
    (UUM-16309)

- SRP Core: Fixed Decal Projector Editor fields so they are now saved when editing a prefab.
    ([UUM-29105](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-made-to-decal-project-prefab-in-the-inspector-are-not-saved))

- SRP Core: Fixed the Revert Property for animation curves on Volume Components so it now works correctly.
    ([UUM-20458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-revert-property-doesnt-work-on-curves))

- SRP Core: Updated the Render Graph documentation to reflect API changes.

- Terrain: Added default TerrainTools Overlay docking.

- Tests: Fixed failing tests on Test IntegrationTests - Linux64Standalone \(Ubuntu 18.04\) Yamato Job.

- TextCore: Enabled glyphs to display in the Inspector of a bitmap font asset.
    (UUM-20325)

- TextCore: Enabled `FontAsset.HasCharacter` to now support UTF32.
    ([UUM-22663](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-tmp-fontasset-dot-hascharacter-overloads-are-missing-utf32-support))

- TLS: Implemented cumulative TLS updates:<br>
    * Fixed invalid verification results reported in cases where there is a TLS handshake failure.<br>
    * Fixed an issue where opening multiple TLS connections with different lifetimes might affect the ability to produce log output after one of the first connections is closed.<br>
    * Improved TLS errors reported by Unity Web Request.

- uGUI: Enable instantiating a Selectable under a CanvasGroup to set the correct interactable state.
    ([UUM-27611](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-button-is-interactable-when-instantiated-into-a-non-interactable-canvas-group))

- uGUI: Fixed a NullReferenceException in 1Image.sprite` when setting a new Sprite and the current `Sprite.Texture\` is null.
    ([UUM-13053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ugui-nullreferenceexception-when-sprite-dot-texture-is-null))

- UI Elements: Fixed an issue with the GenericDropdownMenu that prevented the items from receiving input when it's reused.
    ([UUM-21001](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-callbacks-for-attachtopanelevent-and-detachfrompanelevent-are-unregistered-when-the-ondetachfrompanel-is-called))

- UI Toolkit: Added missing support for TreeView reordering, including depth reordering, expansion when hovering an expandable item, and sibling drop marker.
    (UUM-3683)

- UI Toolkit: Changed text effects so they are no longer contained by the bonds of each letter.
    ([UUM-9524](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-label-text-shadow-effect-clips-when-its-blur-radius-and-offset-exceeds-letter-space))

- UI Toolkit: Enabled the TextField placeholder to refresh.
    (UUM-21819)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder for `UxmlAssetAttributeDescription` where setting None through the object picker would prevent choosing another value.
    (UUM-27170)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder so the open file dialog now displays the current project's folder.
    (UUM-24723)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue so the tint of an Image element now triggers a repaint.
    ([UUM-22563](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uitoolkit-image-is-not-repainted-when-making-style-changes-to-tint-color))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue when adding or removing components with the inspector in debug mode.
    ([UUM-18854](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidoperationexception-is-spammed-when-adding-a-new-component-while-inspector-is-in-debug-mode))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue when renaming a prefab with the inspector in debug mode.
    (UUM-7218)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where an ExposedReference control would always create a new PropertyName value when changing an object reference.
    (UUM-25160)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where an ExposedReference control would not serialize its value.
    (UUM-25153)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed buttons not reacting to a mouse on Android and iOS devices.
    ([UUM-3696](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-android-mouse-touchpad-ui-toolkit-is-not-interactable-when-using-mouse-or-touchpad))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed buttons not reacting to clicks when selecting SingleUnifiedPointer pointer mode on Android and iOS devices using the Input System package.
    ([UUM-3964](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/touch-not-registered-if-new-input-system-pointer-behavior-is-single-unified-pointer-when-clicking-on-ui-made-with-ui-builder))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed changing a script field with the inspector in debug mode.
    ([UUM-14069](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-change-scripts-in-inspector-window-when-in-debug-mode))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed element becoming invisible after a reorder in an animated ListView.
    (UUM-21272)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed exceptions being thrown when entering play mode with the inspector in debug mode.
    ([UUM-22475](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-when-entering-playmode-while-the-debug-inspector-is-enabled))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed items going slightly out of bounds in ListViews.
    ([UUM-28519](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/last-listview-element-size-is-calculated-incorrectly-when-creating-it-through-a-script))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed items in animated lists sometimes disappearing.
    ([UUM-25833](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/element-ui-disappears-and-nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-dragging-off-the-last-or-first-element-from-the-list-in-the-inspector))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed navigation sometimes leaving TextField when pressing Down arrow for a long duration.
    ([UUM-14247](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/long-press-slash-release-on-down-key-cause-unexpected-field-navigation))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed private fields disappearing when entering play mode with the inspector in debug mode.
    ([UUM-20170](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/private-fields-disappear-in-the-inspector-window-when-entering-play-mode-if-the-inspector-window-mode-is-debug))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the InspectorElement so it now applies its disabled state for embedded IMGUI inspectors.
    (UUM-25149)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the ListView binding with negative indexes when a negative scroll offset was applied.
    ([UUM-12868](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/treeview-binding-breaks-when-using-negative-scrolloffset))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the ListView itemsRemoved event being invoked after the items were removed from the serializedObjectList. They are now removed after the callback.
    ([UUM-10786](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-errors-in-the-console-when-removing-items-from-a-scriptableobjects-listview))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the reported TreeView state after a reorder operation.
    ([UUM-3478](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/treeview-does-not-report-correct-state-after-reordering))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the ScrollView functionality with hidden elements. The ScrollBar no longer appears randomly.
    (UUM-21875)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the sound on Mac when navigating collection views with keyboard.
    (UUM-26264)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the UI document so it now has the correct size for multiple displays.
    ([UUM-18757](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-rescale-of-the-ui-document-when-using-multi-display))

- Universal RP: Disabled negative color and NaN write to TAA history.
    ([UUM-26709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/temporal-anti-aliasing-taa-produces-severe-artifacting-when-quality-set-to-very-high))

- Universal RP: Fixed a compilation error that was caused by a wrong parameter while deprecating `UniversalRenderPipeline.RenderSingleCamera`.

- Universal RP: Fixed a light cookie out of bounds.
    ([UUM-20622](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendering-stops-and-error-is-spammed-when-light-limit-is-reached-on-ios-metal-using-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed a missing keyword in ParticlesSimpleLit for Lightmap shadow mixing.
    ([UUM-26403](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-particle-simplelit-is-missing-number-pragma-multi-compile-lightmap-shadow-mixing))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue causing Dynamic Resolution to be disabled during URP rendering.
    ([UUM-18852](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-dynamic-resolution-cant-be-checked-when-scene-view-tab-isnt-focused))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue so that deferred rendering now works correctly in builds with Accurate GBuffer Normals enabled.
    ([UUM-25112](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nothing-is-rendered-in-the-built-urp-project-when-deferred-rendering-is-selected-and-accurate-g-buffer-normals-are-enabled))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where **Write Rendering Layers** was sometimes incorrectly enabled in Deferred Rendering.

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where alpha clipping was not working with Unlit shader's DepthNormal pass.
    ([UUM-20888](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-the-default-unlit-material-doesnt-clip-depth-in-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where instantiating and destroying cameras, with Volume Update Mode set to ViaScripting, would allocate each time.
    ([UUM-22213](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-instantiating-and-destroying-camera-with-update-mode-set-to-via-scripting-causes-memory-leak))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where keywords used in Post Processing were also stripped in other shaders.

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where scenes were not marked dirty after changing the volume update setting on cameras.

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where some sprites were causing null exception errors.
    (UUM-20218)

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where the Depth Priming check was accidentally removed, which caused CI failures.

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where the main light shadows were incorrect if the scene and game windows were open.
    (UUM-9825)

- Universal RP: Fixed color and depth mismatch when scaling is on.
    ([UUM-29397](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/combining-copy-depth-render-scale-and-off-screen-target-throws-error))

- Universal RP: Fixed the additional light shadows and soft shadows missing on transparent lit objects when using the deferred renderer.
    ([UUM-20792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lights-shine-through-opaque-objects-when-the-rendering-path-option-is-set-to-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed the warnings that appear in `GlobalIllumination.hlsl` regarding gradient instruction used in a loop.
    ([UUM-21675](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-in-lightcookieinput-dot-hlsl-when-using-cookie))

- Universal RP: Fixed using `RenderTextureSubElement.Stencil` in URP so it now binds properly.
    ([UUM-9701](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-is-black-when-using-stencil-texture-in-shader))

- Universal RP: Fixed various errors that appeared when Strict Variant Matching is enabled.

- Universal RP: Fixed _WorldSpaceCameraPos so it is now set correctly in XR Multipass.
    ([UUM-2514](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-urp-multipass-worldspacecamerapos-is-not-set-correctly-for-both-eyes))

- URP: Added vertex SH option to URP rendering and fixed HL2 forward light perf regression.
    (UUM-26824)

- URP: Fixed a gbuffer resource leak in URP deferred.
    (UUM-26626)

- URP: Fixed a LOD crossfade issue when rendered with BatchRendererGroup.

- URP: Fixed a null exception when adding a sorting layer.
    ([UUM-29492](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-in-console-when-creating-a-new-sorting-layer))

- URP: Fixed light batching with Rendergraph2D passes.
    (UUM-23153)

- URP: Fixed NullReferenceException being thrown when opening Light Explorer with 2D Lights.
    ([UUM-19576](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-opening-light-explorer-with-2d-lights))

- URP: Fixed profiling code causing 2-3ms of overhead on URP.
    (UUM-30143)

- URP: Fixed the HDR output so it is no longer overly saturated because of a Color Grading variant not included in builds.
    (UUM-27503)

- URP: Fixed uninitialized SpriteProps in CanvasRenderer for 2D.
    (UUM-18389)

- URP: Fixed XR vsync so it stays enabled when the focus is lost.
    (UUM-16846)

- UTR: Enabled re-throwing an exception with an improved error message in `Workspace.CurrentVersionString`.

- UTR: Implemented a new UTR 1.14.0 tool.

- VFX Graph: Added extra memory to allow external threads to steal VFX update jobs.
    (UUM-22049)

- VFX Graph: Enabled correct generation of the interpolator modifiers for packed structure in HDRP Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-555](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-constants-not-correctly-patched-in-vs))

- VFX Graph: Enabled hiding **Sorting mode** and **Revert sorting** when the blend mode is set to Opaque.
    (UUM-4755)

- VFX Graph: Enabled hiding the log message asking to check the asset for version control in an empty VFX window,  when resetting Editor Layout.
    ([UUM-17615](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-reseting-editor-layout-empty-vfx-window-displays-log-message-to-check-out-the-asset-for-version-control))

- VFX Graph: Enabled keeping the bottom margin on blocks when collapsed.
    ([UUM-28832](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-padding-is-insufficient-at-the-bottom-of-a-collapsed-block-when-there-is-a-connected-node))

- VFX Graph: Enabled minimizing the generated interpolator count with VFX Shader Graph to improve its performance and avoid reaching the limit.
    (UUM-20787)

- VFX Graph: Enabled taking user's preference for the Search Window mode into account for object fields in VFX Graph \(classic / advanced\).
    ([UUM-26418](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/advanced-search-engine-is-opened-when-classic-search-engine-is-selected-when-using-visual-effects-graph))

- VFX Graph: Enabled the option to filter out DXR and META passes from SG generated shaders.
    (UUM-25418)

- VFX Graph: Fixed a crash when removing VFXRenderer from a disabled GameObject.
    ([UUM-16391](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-memorymanager-deallocate-when-reimporting-vfx-graph-asset))

- VFX Graph: Fixed a serialization issue causing a potential crash due to bounds computation.
    ([UUM-25009](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-crash-with-bounds-paddings))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an error in the console when clicking on the \[+\] button in the blackboard in the "No Asset" window.
    ([UUM-28528](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-is-thrown-when-adding-a-property-without-having-a-visual-effect-graph-created))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue where VFXs were not culled properly, causing flickering shadows.
    ([UUM-14271](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-shadows-flicker-when-effect-is-out-of-camera-frustum))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an unexpected motion vector when adding precompute velocity that was enabled in Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-22368](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-slash-sg-wrong-motion-vector-on-mesh-using-sg))

- VFX Graph: Fixed compilation error when targeting .NET Standard runtime.
    ([UUM-21618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/visual-effect-graph-package-compilation-fails-when-the-editor-assemblies-compatibility-level-is-set-to-net-standard))

- VFX Graph: Fixed errors in the console when undoing changes from gizmo in some specific conditions.
    ([UUM-21929](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-errors-are-thrown-to-the-console-when-undoing-operation-after-editing-exposed-gizmos))

- VFX Graph: Fixed mesh LOD flickering when using TAA.
    ([UUM-10073](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lod-groups-flicker-in-scene-view-when-always-refresh-is-on))

- VFX Graph: Fixed minor issues with Cube and Sphere particle outputs.
    (UUM-4792)

- VFX Graph: Fixed mismatching LOD between eyes in multi-pass VR.
    (UUM-6004)

- VFX Graph: Fixed panning and zooming a VFX Graph was synchronized between all opened tabs. Also when multiple VFX Graph tabs are opened they are now properly restored after Unity is restarted.
    ([UUM-13770](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-view-interactions-are-shared-between-vfx-graph-tabs))

- VFX Graph: Fixed the range not being applied in the UI when setting up a value out of the allowed range.
    ([UUM-20616](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-min-slash-max-slash-range-is-not-reflected-in-ui-for-numeric-properties))

- VFX Graph: Fixed the `Dispose()` method of `MeshToSDFBaker` leading to memory leaks
    ([UUM-25814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sdf-baking-causes-memory-to-be-allocated-that-isnt-deallocated-when-in-play-mode-and-in-builds))

- VFX Graph: Fixed unexpected per frame garbage while using Timeline.
    (UUM-26997)

- VFX Graph: Forced positive color values in the graph UI.
    ([UUM-20076](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-output-mesh-having-negative-base-color-channel-results-in-black-screen))

- VFX Graph: Removed unnecessary file access when new assets are imported.
    (UUM-21642)

- VFX Graph: Restored missing tooltips.
    (UUM-18536)

- Video: Enabled VideoPlayer compositing material to recreate after stopping.
    (UUM-21664)

- Video: Improved Variable Frame Rate support for Apple platforms.
    ([UUM-21455](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-created-with-avfoundation-framework-is-not-played-when-entering-the-play-mode))

- Web: Added stickyCursorLock API to make cursor lock "sticky" or "unsticky". Sticky cursor lock means that if the browser unlocks the cursor when the user presses the ESC key, the cursor will remain locked in Unity. To match the browser's behavior, users can set the stickyCursorLock to false, which will "unstick" the cursor lock.
    ([UUM-16915](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cursor-dot-lockstate-still-returns-locked-when-esc-is-pressed-in-the-webgl-player-or-editor))

- WebGL: Fixed the playback of MP3 audio files loaded via UnityWebRequest on Safari.
    ([UUM-25389](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-audio-source-has-no-sound-if-the-audio-clip-was-downloaded-via-webrequest-on-ios-devices))

- Windows: Fixed a potential crash during Windows Player cleanup.
    ([UUM-25383](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-screenmanagerwin-recommitcursorlock-when-screenmanager-pointer-is-used))

- Windows: Fixed incorrect display names of certain subset of keys.
    ([UUM-22694](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-system-arrow-keys-are-displayed-as-num-when-using-arrowkey-dot-displaynames))

- Windows: Fixed quoting of the command line arguments.
    ([UUM-21600](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/commandline-receives-different-commands-when-passing-through-system-dot-environment-dot-commandline-method))

- XR: Updated XR Core-Utils version to 2.2.0.

- XR: Updated XR Hands version to 1.1.0-pre.3.

- XR: Updated XR Interaction Toolkit version to 2.3.0.

