### Feature

*   VR Head-Tracked Splash Screen
    *   Enabled on all Unity VR supported platforms.
    *   Head-tracked splash screen is shown as early as possible while asynchronously loading the first scene.
    *   Splash screen is customizable for Unity Pro. Users can set an image in PlayerSettings -> Virtual Reality Splash Image which will be shown as if on a wall in a black room while loading the first scene.
    *   Splash screen is tied to the "Show Unity Splash Screen" option and can be disabled in Unity Pro.

### Change

*   Editor: Screen.lockCursor will not be reset when clicking with mouse
*   UI: Updated function names to be more consistent with other classes
*   Windows Store: all managed plugins and WinMD files always target AnyCPU architecture. This essentially means that you no longer need to have separate wrapper DLL and winmd files for each native plugin you have.

### Improvement

*   Clear script function added to remove all points from a TrailRenderer
*   Crunch texture compression: Improve compression quality of normal maps
*   GetComponentsInChildren now correctly works if one of the parents of the gameobject being called on is inactive. This makes GetComponentInChildren work on prefabs, and only changes behaviour in cases where previously you were guaranteed to get an empty array as result.
*   Improved "The referenced script on this Behaviour" message with the game object name in the player, it will look now like 'The referenced script on this Behaviour (Game Object 'Main Camera') is missing!'.
*   OSX Standalone: Set player name to the value of PlayerSettings.ProductName
*   UI: Add caret color field to InputField as text color isn't always correct
*   UI: Added force update method to InputField to allow instant recalcuations
*   UI: TouchInput module is no longer needed. Standalone is the only required module to get both touch and mouse/ keyboard events
*   UI: Updated the max number of submeshes from 5 to 9

### Fixes

*   Crunch texture compression: Fix errors when baking light maps on scenes with crunched textures
*   Crunch texture compression: Fix memory corruption crash when using crunched textures as Cubemaps
*   Crunch texture compression: Fix using crunched textures on terrains
*   Editor: Fixes Nullref when trying to maximize a view through the Context menu.
*   Fix Mono Assembly stripping
*   Fixed GUILayout.EndHorizontal() throwing an exception after calling BuildPipeline.BuildAssetBundles
*   GI: Fixed a crash when switching scenes when at least one of them was using realtime GI and light probes.
*   GI: Fixed additive loading of static lightmaps on terrains.
*   GI: Fixed lightmap data asset not loading regression.
*   GI: Fixed the reflection probe inspector breaking when reusing a cubemap (RenderTexture) from a realtime reflection probe on a custom reflection probe.
*   IL2CPP: Change the conv.i8 opcode implementation to handle sign extension correctly so that a conversion from a large negative int to a uint to a long in C# works as expected.
*   IL2CPP: Fixed a crash which occurred when script derived from a class that implemented ISerializationCallbackReceiver, was compiled into a DLL and no other script referenced any class that implemented ISerializationCallbackReceiver
*   IL2CPP: Generate proper C++ code for a type with two fields that have the same type and name.
*   IL2CPP: Improve the error message when the byte code stripper is unable to locate an assembly.
*   IL2CPP: Low level memory profiler: no longer report constant literals as fields with offset 0.
*   IL2CPP: Prevent a NullReferenceException exception from occurring during the processing of the Preserve attribute which can obscure the actual cause of a problem.
*   IL2CPP: Prevent an KeyNotFoundException exception from occurring during code conversion when a generic method is used with at least one generic argument that exceeds the maximum generic recursion depth.
*   Mecanim: Fixed a bug where keyframes' default values were not initialized, sometimes causing issues when creating Curves from Euler.
*   Mecanim: Fixed Animation Window not displaying the proper sampled value.
*   Mecanim: Fixed AnimationControllerPlayable calls not being forwarded from Animator to its playables.
*   Mecanim: Fixed AnimationEvents not called when at the beginning of a State.
*   Mecanim: Fixed BlendTree evaluation performance regression.
*   Mecanim: Fixed Crash when using OverrideController with no source Controller.
*   Mecanim: Fixed deleting of SMB instances when user delete a state/statemachine with SMB.
*   Mecanim: Fixed Model importer clip animation not updating correctly when set from a script.
*   Mecanim: Fixed numerical instabilities in transition preview. State name was not unique and was interfering with calculations..
*   Mecanim: Fixed transition start time was not initialized correctly for played State.
*   Particles: Fixed sorting when using sort by distance.
*   Scripting/Mono: Fixed Marshal.StructureToPtr crash when marshalling struct hierarchies on 64-bit.
*   Serialization: Fixed random float value corruption in the editor after multiple playing/stopping scene
*   UI: Filled images need to clear the vertex data before adding new
*   UI: Force Input caret to end of text on mobile device
*   UI: Image will not use the material texture if there is no sprite defined
*   UI: Tiled sprites with zero center will assume the center is stretched
*   Unity IAP: Fix for dead "Go to Dashboard" link in IAP window
*   Unity IAP: Fix to address an issue where the Editor would crash during the "Import" step of the platform-specific plug-ins
*   Unity IAP: Fix to show the supported platforms in the Services Window for IAP
*   Unity IAP: Removed attribute that is leading to Android manifest merging conflicts
*   VR: Fix Fov in Scene/Game view of the Editor
*   VR: Fix HMD content failure after disconnect and reconnect
*   VR: Fix incorrect info and toggles while HMD was disconnected
*   VR: Fix Loss of Window focus crashes upon return
*   VR: Fix regression crash when HMD was disconnected at application start
*   VR: Fix stereoMirrorMode right eye flicker
*   VR: Fix VRDevice.IsPresent always returning true.
    *   Exception: still occurs on Windows 7 with Oculus runtime 0.7.0.0, otherwise fixed
*   VR: Fix wrong FOV on entering play mode
*   WebGL: fix Application.dataPath
*   WebGL: Fix AudioClip.Create on Safari
*   WebGL: fix GUI.TextArea issue caused by TextEditor stripping
*   WebGL: Fix rescaling of default html template
*   WebGL: fix Return/Enter keypress on Firefox
*   WebGL: InputString: fix truncation of UTF16 characters
*   WebGL: Make Application.targetFrameRate work
*   WebGL: Make AudioClip.SetData work
*   WebGL: Make SoundI::getLength return the correct result
*   Windows Editor: Fixed D3D9 crash when locking/unlocking windows, due to a DeviceLost event not being handled correctly
*   Windows Standalone: In startup screen available resolutions list is populated according to the selected monitor
*   Windows Standalone: Switching from windowed to fullscreen mode will fullscreen player in the same monitor where it was in the windowed mode
*   Windows Store: fixed a memory leak which reduced memory usage by around 4 to 8 MB.
*   XboxOne/IL2CPP: Correct metadata loading on startup.

### The following are changes and fixes to 5.3 features and regressions...

### Fixes

*   Editor: Fix InvalidOperationExceptions caused by ObjectFields in default inspectors.
*   Editor: Fix Selection style not showing selection background in Package Import/Export windows.
*   Mecanim: Fixing rotation order change errors.
*   Terrain: Fixed an issue where in some rare cases trees disappear from terrain in built player.
*   Windows Store: removed dependency on VS2010 when building using IL2CPP scripting backend
*   Windows Store: WACK now passes when using IL2CPP scripting backend