### Known Issues in 2019.1.0a10 under investigation

*   Android: Player freezes after granting app permission (1103388)
    
*   Build Pipeline: Building with Autoconnect Profiler enabled throws error that ShowProfilerWindow could not be called ([1059763](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/building-with-autoconnect-profiler-enabled-throws-error-that-showprofilerwindow-could-not-be-called))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Editor crashes when building a project for any platform with services enabled (1103349)
    
*   Editor: PostProcessing throws errors and tutorials do not start when Learn project is launched ([1046727](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/iet-postprocessing-throws-errors-and-tutorials-do-not-start-when-learn-project-is-launched-with-2018-dot-3))
    
*   iOS: Empty project build crashes with in PlatformInfoDispatcher.ReportAnalyticsData on iOS devices ([1077832](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-empty-project-build-crashes-with-thread-1-signal-sigabrt-on-iphone-x))
    
*   Prefabs: Crashes as Override window doesn't check component dependency ([1093613](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/improved-prefabs-crashes-as-override-window-doesnt-check-component-dependency))
    
*   Prefabs: Editor crashes while selecting "Insert base" for a Prefab Variant (1102818)
    
*   Prefabs: Removing prefab instance's component throws exception in console and Inspector window is broken (1102102)
    

### Known Issues - won't be fixed in 2019.1

*   XR: Linear color space has driver issues on Gear VR with S7 Adreno based phones running Android 7.0.

### New 2019.1.0a10 Entries since 2019.1.0a9

#### Features

*   Android: Added support for ASTC HDR texture formats
    
*   Editor: Added new EditorTools API, allowing users to create new tools that behave like native tools. A new button has been added to the toolbar to display custom tools. Additionally, a new display in the SceneView now shows the available CustomEditor tools for the selection.
    
*   Editor: Added support for referencing Assembly Definition Files with GUIDs instead of assembly names. Enable with "Use GUIDs" option in Assembly Definition File inspector. Enabled by default for new Assembly Definition Files.
    
*   Editor: Console : callstack now clickable. Hyperlinks will take you to the source code line for any function calls listed in the stack
    
*   Editor: Exposed AdvancedDropdown API for searchable AddComponent-like dropdowns
    
*   Graphics: Add support of any GPU formats for RenderTexture
    
*   Package Manager: Add Package manifest inspector
    
*   Scripting: Enabled incremental Garbage Collector on Universal Windows Platform
    
*   Timeline: Added Signals and Markers in Timeline
    
*   Video: Video H.265 transcode support
    

#### Backwards Compatibility Breaking Changes

*   Android: If SRP is active, blit mode is forced to "Never blit" on Android.
    
*   Editor: Move the "Shortcuts..." menu item from the Edit menu to the Unity menu on macOS.
    
*   Linux: Deprecate Linux x86 and Universal targets. These will be removed in future Unity versions.
    
*   Physics: Physics.reuseCollisionCallbacks and Physics2D.reuseCollisionCallbacks properties now default to false (off). New Project Templates default this to true (on).
    
*   UI Elements: The Inspector Window is now implemented with UIElements, adding support for UIElements based custom inspectors
    
*   WebGL: Removed MemorySize and LinkerTarget options from Editor
    
*   WebGL: Update Emscripten to version 1.38.11
    

#### Improvements

*   Android: Native Systrace profiling support is implemented
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Scriptable objects that are loaded before a refresh/import, will after a refresh/import be reloaded, if the underlying asset had been modified before the refresh/import. This means that after the refresh/import scriptables objects will have the modified values from modified assets. Before this change, the scriptable object would get "null" value (when using operator==) after the refresh/import.
    
*   Editor: Added field of view axis selection dropdown in camera inspector
    
*   Editor: Improved performance of the model importer inspector material remapping section.
    
*   Editor: Scene visibility and isolation mode
    
*   GI: Lightprobe Gizmos are now affected by postprocessing
    
*   Graphics: Revamp of the DrawProcedural script API:
    
    *   DrawProceduralNow replaces the existing API, because it submits draw calls immediately. The new DrawProcedural API submits calls to color, shadows, reflections etc. This now matches the DrawMesh/DrawMeshNow API.
    *   Added overloads of DrawProcedural that take an Index Buffer
*   Graphics: Texture Mipmap streaming now supported in editor Edit Mode when enabled in editor settings.
    
*   Graphics: Update ASTC texture compressor with faster multi-core compression
    
*   IL2CPP: Improve run time performance when script debugging is enabled.
    
*   IL2CPP: Setting IL2CPP compiler config to "Master" will now enable Link Time Optimization on Mac, Android and WebGL
    
*   Particles: Add a new mode to the Texture Sheet Animation Module, allowing animations to be specific to each mesh being used
    
*   Particles: Expose particle mesh indices to script, allowing users to get/set which mesh each particle is using
    
*   Particles: Expose particle mesh indices to shaders, allowing users to know which mesh each particle is using
    
*   Profiler: Will now show time to wait for the next frame consistently accross all player platforms regardless of how vsync is implemented.
    
*   Scripting: Added new GarbageCollector APIs to control incremental GC
    
*   Scripting: Added support for Visual Studio 2019 code editor.
    
*   Scripting: Allot time to the incremental GC every frame for better incremental GC performance. When waiting vysnc or Application.targetFrameRate is used, keep adjust according to available remaining frame time budget.
    
*   Terrain: Added a direction bias to the Terrain smoothing brush, to control blur to either go up or down
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Added support for building player with Visual Studio 2019.
    
*   WebGL: Added UnityLoader.instantiateAsync() which returns a JS Promise
    
*   XR: UpdateVuforia to version 7.5.26
    

#### API Changes

*   2D: Added a new property TextureGenerationSettings.secondarySpriteTextures, which lets you assign secondary textures to the Sprite texture asset that is being generated.
    
*   2D: Added a new property TextureImporter.secondarySpriteTextures, which lets you assgin secondary textures to a texture asset imported as Sprite.
    
*   2D: Added a new struct UnityEngine.SecondarySpriteTexture, which encapsulates a Texture2D and its shader property name to give Sprite-based renderers access to a secondary texture, in addition to the main Sprite texture.
    
*   Editor: Added CompilationPipeline.GetAssemblyDefinitionFilePathFromAssemblyReference, CompilationPipeline.GetAssemblyDefinitionReferenceType, CompilationPipeline.GUIDToAssemblyDefinitionReferenceGUID, CompilationPipeline.AssemblyDefinitionReferenceGUIDToGUID APIs for dealing with Assembly Definition File references that can be either a GUID or assembly name.
    
*   Editor: Added EditorUtility.GetDirtyCount() which returns how many times SetDirty is invoked upon the specified asset. Reset to zero when saved.
    
*   Editor: Added EditorUtility.IsDirty() which returns if any SetDirty is invoked upon the specified asset.
    
*   Graphics: Added Camera.HorizontalToVerticalFieldOfView(float horizontalFieldOfView, float aspectRatio) and Camera.VerticalToHorizontalFieldOfView(float verticalFieldOfView, float aspectRatio) methods.
    
*   Graphics: Added Material.ComputeCRC() function which returns a CRC hash value of the material asset content.
    
*   Graphics: Added Shader.GetDependency() function used for querying one of the shader dependency shaders by name.
    
*   Graphics: Added Texture2D.normalTexture property which returns a small neutral normal texture.
    
*   Physics: Added "Rigidbody2D.SetRotation(angle)" to allow the body z-axis rotation to be set in degrees.
    
*   Physics: Added "Rigidbody2D.SetRotation(quaternion)" allow the body rotation to be set by Quaternion.
    
*   Physics: Added Collision.GetContact(List) and Collision2D.GetContact(List) methods.
    
*   Scripting: Added GarbageCollector.isIncremental, GarbageCollector.incrementalTimeSliceNanoseconds, GarbageCollector.CollectIncremental
    
*   Timeline: Make TrackAsset.CreatePlayable(PlayableGraph, GameObject, TimelineClip) virtual to match behaviour from 2018.1 ([1096350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/method-trackasset-dot-createplayable-cannot-be-overridden))
    
*   XR: Add a command to set single-pass stereo mode with command buffer. (1096603)
    

#### Fixes

*   2D: Allow user to reset the Sorting Layer and Sorting Order settings of Renderer components from the Inspector Settings cog button. (1096375)
    
*   2D: Crash on SpriteAtlas::Add when passing array of nulls to SpriteAtlas.Add ([1089125](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-spriteatlas-add-when-passing-array-of-nulls-to-spriteatlas-dot-add))
    
*   2D: Fix Scene maarked dirty when editting Sprites in Sprite Editor Window ([1047148](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editing-a-sprite-atlas-dirties-the-scene-but-doesnt-check-out-the-scene-in-vcs))
    
*   2D: Fixed issue where Sorting Groups did not update in Play Mode when Play Mode was paused in the Editor.
    
*   2D: Fixed overlapping Tiles on the Tilemap Renderer when rendering a Hexagonal Tilemap or Grid. ([1066481](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-tilemap-hexagon-sort-order-on-tilemap-renderer-seem-to-cause-some-hexagon-tiles-to-not-overlap-properly))
    
*   2D: RectInt.Contains will support RectInt.size with negative size. ([1079566](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rectint-dot-contains-doesnt-consider-rectints-width-and-height-being-negative))
    
*   2D: Selecting a Tilemap as the Focus On target will now center and fit the Scene View to the selected Tilemap. (1077381)
    
*   2D: Sprites rendered through Command Buffers not displayed until rendered once with a default Renderer ([1097465](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-rendered-through-command-buffers-not-displayed-until-rendered-once-with-a-default-renderer))
    
*   2D: The Grid Brush preview is now highlighted in blue when previewing a Tile with a non-zero Z-Position. ([1085215](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tiles-cant-be-deleted-without-deleting-the-whole-tilemap-when-the-tiles-have-lost-its-tile-base-or-sprite))
    
*   2D: The Grid Brush preview will now be highlighted in the correct Scene View when multiple Scene Views are open. ([1066481](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-tilemap-hexagon-sort-order-on-tilemap-renderer-seem-to-cause-some-hexagon-tiles-to-not-overlap-properly))
    
*   Android: Fix editor errors when connected to an unauthorised android device (1090834)
    
*   Android: Fix for Android builds failing when Split Application binary is enabled (1096444)
    
*   Android: Fixed Display.systemHeight and Display.systemWidth ([1090830](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-display-dot-systemheight-and-systemwidth-return-rendering-values-instead-of-screen-native-values))
    
*   Android: Fixed problem with exceptions when exporting Android Gradle project ([1089510](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gradle-export-throws-trying-to-add-unity-classes-dot-jar-slash-androidmanifest-dot-xml-to-the-list-of-output-files))
    
*   Android: Keyboard.onTextInput, Keyboard.onIMECompositionChange will be correctly called for physical and virtual keyboard events.
    
*   Android: Mounting additional apk files to support dynamic features is implemented (1078212)
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue getting velocity from input AnimationStreams (1096208)
    
*   Asset Import: Apply/Revert can be used when a change is made in the selected ScriptedImporter settings. ([1087775](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scriptedimporter-scripted-importer-default-inspector-doesnt-update-the-revert-and-apply-buttons))
    
*   Asset Import: Using Presets, copying settings from an FBX to another FBX file does not break asset references anymore. ([1031246](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/certain-import-settings-causes-things-inside-preset-to-disappear))
    
*   Asset Import: Using Reset in the Inspector on ScriptedImporter will revert values to users declaration in their script. ([1098109](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/reset-in-inspector-does-not-revert-scriptedimporter-values-to-default-values-declared-in-the-class))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Added waitForPlayerConnection build setting and build option
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed a crash during AssetBundle build when objects are destroyed in the middle of the build. ([1031313](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-addbuildassetinfochecked-when-building-project-with-scene-that-contains-super-text-mesh-component))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Will remove duplicate mono folder in Mac Standalone builds, removing around 500 kb of unneeded data from builds
    
*   DX12: Fixed a crash when using lightSource.AddCommandBuffer and exiting Player that has Graphics Jobs enabled ([958323](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/directx12-crash-on-unitymain-when-using-lightsource-dot-addcommandbuffer-and-exiting-player-that-has-graphics-jobs-enabled))
    
*   DX12: Fixed a crash with memory allocation issues when using a camera with the depth or don't clear flags ([969582](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dx12-crash-with-memory-allocation-issues-when-using-a-camera-with-the-depth-or-dont-clear-flags))
    
*   DX12: Fixed where Player crash when switching scene (1089146)
    
*   DX12: fixed where ReadPixels behave differently on DX12 when the project is set to Linear color space ([1043725](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/readpixels-behave-differently-on-dx12-when-the-project-is-set-to-linear-color-space))
    
*   DX12: Fixed where test runner crashes while running test containing RenderTexture instantiation from command prompt (1015725)
    
*   Editor: Diagnostic warning icon drawn under text (1093938)
    
*   Editor: Fix issue with all previous compile errors always being cleared from the console after recompiling any scripts (1086896)
    
*   Editor: Fix state propagation when a VisualElement is added to a hierarchy. (1093728)
    
*   Editor: Fix to enable only seleected menu items (cut/copy/paste/delete/select all) when modal windows are shown - OSX (1092367)
    
*   Editor: Fixed crash when calling RenderTexture.ReleaseTemporary twice for same texture ([1091561](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-renderbuffermanager-textures-garbagecollect-when-calling-rendertexture-dot-releasetemporary-twice))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with editor crash when reordering game objects in a particular workflow (1097118)
    
*   Editor: Fixed menu items forgetting their default shortcut bindings.
    
*   Editor: Fixed performance issues related to the test runner for projects with many assemblies.
    
*   Editor: Fixed profiler errors when profiling the editor in Vulkan renderer. (1087222)
    
*   Editor: Fixed shortcut manager not triggering correct shortcuts for the active shortcut profile.
    
*   Editor: Improved performance for EditorCompilation.CheckCyclicAssemblyReference, which would be very slow for projects with a large number of .asmdefs and many dependencies between them. ([1095709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/checkcyclicassemblyreferences-takes-a-long-time-in-projects-with-many-assemblies))
    
*   Editor: ScriptableObject apply default references when created from ObjectFactory API and UI. ([1090072](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scriptable-object-loses-references-when-new-sample-tile-is-created))
    
*   Editor: Unity Test Runner will not execute PrebuildSetup code for ignored playmode tests or tests that are disabled on the selected platform
    
*   Editor: Updated com.unity.analytics package to version 3.2.2, now includes Data Privacy tools previously available as Unity Data Privacy Plug-in in the Asset Store.
    
*   Editor: \[OSX\] Fixed an issue where pressing CMD + Z when changing the project name causes a fatal error. ([1092471](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-fatal-error-occurs-in-the-launcher-when-cmd-plus-z-is-used-when-changing-the-project-name))
    
*   GI: Fixed a bug where a probeset with completely overlapping positions would cause the deringing settings array to become shifted.
    
*   GI: Fixed a case where the CPU progressive lightmapper could never finish a bake when LODs were baked (specifically when they would rasterize far outside of the UVs themselves). ([1066196](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightmap-baking-is-stuck-on-baking-dot-dot-dot-stage-when-baking-the-cave-demo))
    
*   GI: Fixed CPU progressive lightmapper initial AO bake. ([1096065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ao-on-the-first-bake-after-startup-is-broken))
    
*   GI: Fixed LightingData.asset creation, so that only the first lighting generation in non-auto mode marks the scene dirty (in single- and multi-scene scenarios). ([1067913](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/localfileid-changes-frequently-when-baking-lighting))
    
*   Graphics: Added extra validation for RT volumeDepth (1096019)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash with Texture Mipmap streaming scene view debug mode when light maps are recalculated. ([1095546](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dereferencing-null-pptr-crash-when-using-non-directional-lightmap-and-texture-streaming-scene-view))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed memory overwrites in DX11 render target setting code.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed the huge memory leak while rendering in batchmode on desktop platforms ([1093649](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-runtime-has-huge-memory-leak-while-rendering-in-batchmode-on-desktop-platforms))
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fixed crash when user created RT has unsupported sample count (1095433)
    
*   Graphics: Shader.SetGlobalConstantBuffer now affects compute buffer dispatches as well
    
*   Hub: Sunset of the Launcher
    
*   IL2CPP: Adding support for new "in" parameter in C# generics. ([1090230](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-fails-when-using-in-parameters-in-interface-definition))
    
*   IL2CPP: COM Callable Wrappers for managed arrays now implement IReferenceArray interface. This fixes cases where WIndows Runtime APIs expected objects to implement this interface, and if they don't, they report errors such as "Data of this type is not supported." and "Error trying to serialize the value to be written to the application data store." ([1054327](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-il2cpp-msal-error-trying-to-serialize-the-value-to-be-written-to-the-application-data-store))
    
*   IL2CPP: Fixes an issue where code that may not even run can cause a crash in IL2CPP due to attempting to call a method on a value type after an invalid cast. ([1085551](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-error-for-type-system-dot-array-in-assembly-mscorlib-dot-dll-when-building-to-ios))
    
*   iOS: Fully uncoupled accelerometer from gyroscope as it should be ([1085244](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-the-accelerometer-stops-working-when-disabling-the-gyroscope-in-build))
    
*   Linux: Fixed an issue with linking Go code causing garbage collector to not run on Linux ([1087371](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linking-go-code-causes-garbage-collector-to-fail-on-linux))
    
*   Linux: Linux now has access to the scripts only build checkbox (1097195)
    
*   Linux: Resolve an issue where double-clicking on Linux Standalone Players did not function in Nautilus. ([1047075](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-executable-doesnt-launch-and-has-incorrect-icon))
    
*   OSX: Fixed "Using Metal Editor" now showing (1094058)
    
*   OSX: Fixed case where color picker would not properly select color when cursor size was beyond normal size ([1074188](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/retina-mac-color-picker-with-increased-cursor-size-does-not-pick-selected-color-from-the-screen))
    
*   Package Manager: Fix Package Manager timeouts when opening a project inside a closed network. ([1023056](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-2018-dot-1-0b13-cannot-connect-to-unity-package-manager-local-server))
    
*   Particles: Disable particle buffer pre-mapping when using experiemental late WaitForPreesnt syncing (1100026)
    
*   Particles: Fixed a memory leak when pausing playmode in the Editor with billboard particles visible (1098914)
    
*   Particles: Fixed rendering corruption ([1092374](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/realtime-reflection-probes-cause-rendering-artifacts))
    
*   Player: Application now has a focusGained event for recieving changes in application focus.
    
*   Prefabs: Add keyboard shortcuts for Stage navigation: 'Enter Prefab Mode' and 'Go Back'. Default keys are 'P' and 'O', rebind them in the Shortcut Manager Window (1083319)
    
*   Prefabs: Errors spams the console if auto-save is enabled and trying to save a Variant Prefab with a missing base Prefab (1100637)
    
*   Prefabs: Fix 'Save Assets' window pops up after every prefab adjustment in Prefab Mode when 'Verify Saving Assets' and 'Auto Save' is both checked ([1096454](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/save-assets-window-pops-up-after-every-prefab-adjustment-in-prefab-mode-when-verify-saving-assets-and-auto-save-is-checked))
    
*   Prefabs: Fix applying array element properties beyond length of source array so it asks to apply the entire array instead of producing errors. (1094332)
    
*   Prefabs: Fix null-reference exception when switching aspect ratio in Game View. (1099985)
    
*   Prefabs: Fix Prefab Mode becomes unresponsive if deleting folders in which the Prefab is saved to and then saving the open Prefab (1099983)
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed issue for dragged or deleted GameObjects under a Prefab instance, where the 'Open Prefab' button in the 'Cannot Restructure Prefab instance' dialog would open the Prefab of the nearest Prefab root rather than whatever Prefab the dragged or deleted object was added in. ([1098680](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-restructure-prefab-dialog-opens-wrong-prefab))
    
*   Prefabs: Prefab instance referencing its own asset when applying, reference should turn into an internal reference. (1050420)
    
*   Profiler: Fix increased memory usage by profiler for long lasting background operations. (1094748)
    
*   Profiler: Fixed CPU Timeline view not allowing to expand threads to their full depth on a loaded profiler capture ([1098279](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-timelineview-does-not-allow-expanding-of-threads-to-their-full-depth-on-a-loaded-profiler-capture))
    
*   Scripting: Disallow modifications of serialized data in m\_Component on GameObject ([1022204](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-crashes-when-exiting-the-play-mode-in-the-specific-project), [1082089](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gameobject-isactive-when-calling-prefabutility-dot-instantiateprefab))
    
*   Scripting: Fix crashes when accessing Transforms during BeforeSceneLoad callbacks ([1011118](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-calculateglobalposition-when-canvas-render-mode-is-set-to-screen-space-camera-finding-camera-in-awake-method), [1069988](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-transform-setlocalposition-when-entering-play-mode))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed a bug where building players with "using alias" directives pointing to types in other assemblies if those types were not actually used would fail.
    
*   Scripting: Fixed an issue where SynchronizationContext.Current.CreateCopy would return a default SynchronizationContext and not a UnitySynchronizationContext (1096869)
    
*   Scripting: Fixed an issue with static members such as generic classes with their argument being an array type not being reported the memory snapshot API ([984330](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packedmemorysnapshot-type-contains-staticfieldbytes-but-has-no-static-field))
    
*   Scripting: NET\_LEGACY is now only set when NET 2.0 or .NET 2.0 Subset profile is used.
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Add support for the System.Data.DataSetExtensions assembly with the .NET 4.x equivalent scripting runtime ([1071607](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/filenotfoundexception-is-thrown-when-trying-to-access-assembly-referenced-by-managed-plugin))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix crash when debugging ref return of struct type ([1096820](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-visual-studio-debugger-when-there-is-a-breakpoint-on-a-singletonwriter-line-which-gets-a-ref-value))
    
*   Shaders: Fixed surface shaders analysis step sometimes missing inputs when keepalpha is specified ([864173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-pass-surface-shader-does-not-include-vertex-color-data-in-the-second-pass))
    
*   Terrain: "Remove Light Probe Ringing" setting now can be serialized and undone. ([1093751](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-remove-light-probe-ringing-not-serialized-and-tracked-by-undo-in-terrain-settings))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed "Match Content" avoid loops sections when clips have a clip-in value ([1090212](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/match-content-does-not-reset-start-trim-properly))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed activation tracks inside nested timelines incorrectly disabling objects when scrubbing in Timeline Editor (1087814)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed ExposedReferences changes not being identified in some inspectors inside of Timeline (1096010)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Keyframe evaluation after Converting To Infinite Clip ([1094744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-offsets-by-a-keyframe-when-animation-track-is-converted-to-infinite-clip))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed NullReferenceException when doing Ctrl-Click+Drag on a selected clip ([1099285](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-errors-continuously-thrown-when-ctrl-plus-left-click-dragging-already-selected-clips-in-the-timeline-editor))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed responsiveness of keyframing on animation tracks in timeline editor (1096184)
    
*   UI: Added "Selected" stated to selectables
    
*   UI: Fixed case where inputfield cursor wouldn't be positionned properly ([1083649](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inputfields-image-doesnt-extend-to-fit-the-length-of-the-text-fields-value-when-editing-it-in-the-inspector))
    
*   UI: Fixed case where ui filtering in scene view did not function properly (1064210)
    
*   UI: Fixed issue where loading a scene with an orphaned ui component would cause a crash ([1085469](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-transform-getlocalposition-when-opening-a-specific-scene))
    
*   UI: Fixed issue where nested canvases with canvas scalers wouldn't work properly ([1033895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-removing-or-disabling-canvasscaler-corrupts-ui-which-cannot-be-undone))
    
*   UI: Fixed issue with nested canvases with canvas groups and custom alphas not working properly ([1084745](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/canvas-group-children-with-canvas-component-are-faded-when-changing-alpha-parameter-in-the-canvas-group))
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed the graphview blackboard arrow not showing up. (1096516)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixed building project incrementally failing with IOException when it's already open in Visual Studio. ([1098783](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/universal-windows-platform-incremental-builds-with-il2cpp-scripting-backend-fail-if-generated-solution-is-open-in-visual-studio))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixed building projects with .NET 4.6 API compatibility level while using old scripting runtime in the editor. ([1094479](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unhandled-null-reference-exception-in-il2cpp-dot-exe-preventing-uwp-build))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes Animator changing GameObject's position when animation job is empty ([1095938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-il2cpp-empty-animation-state-offsets-components-in-a-master-build))
    
*   Video: Disregard unsupported stream on Windows ([1065499](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-error-is-thrown-when-playing-mov-file-which-was-made-on-iphone-ios-10))
    
*   Video: Fixed crash on specific avi video files on windows ([1088203](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-windowsvideomedia-copytorgba-when-importing-avi-file))
    
*   Video: Fixed crash on specific MPEG2 video files on windows ([1082071](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-playing-mpeg2-video-in-inspector))
    
*   Video: VideoPlayer Camera Plane targets now visible in SRP ([1024877](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-player-doesnt-show-anything-on-hd-scriptable-render-pipeline))
    

### Preview of Final 2019.1.0a10 Release Notes

#### Features

*   Android: Added android notch support
    
*   Android: Added AndroidDevice.SetSustainedPerformanceMode API to enable/disable sustained performance mode in runtime
    
*   Android: Added OpenGL ES 3.2 support
    
*   Android: Added Package Patching functionality, where only script related changes are sent to device instead of repackaging apk file.
    
*   Android: Added support for ASTC HDR texture formats
    
*   Editor: Added CSHARP\_7\_3\_OR\_NEWER preprocessor directive when compiling C# 7.3 on .NET 4.x scripting runtime.
    
*   Editor: Added new EditorTools API, allowing users to create new tools that behave like native tools. A new button has been added to the toolbar to display custom tools. Additionally, a new display in the SceneView now shows the available CustomEditor tools for the selection.
    
*   Editor: Added new SceneView Camera Settings window to control the FOV and Speed of the camera. Mouse scrollwheel adjusts the Speed in Fly/FPS mode too. Also implemented SceneView Camera easing while moving & zooming and added a new section in Preferences to adjust this.
    
*   Editor: Added support for referencing Assembly Definition Files with GUIDs instead of assembly names. Enable with "Use GUIDs" option in Assembly Definition File inspector. Enabled by default for new Assembly Definition Files.
    
*   Editor: Console : callstack now clickable. Hyperlinks will take you to the source code line for any function calls listed in the stack
    
*   Editor: Exposed AdvancedDropdown API for searchable AddComponent-like dropdowns
    
*   Editor: Log message to Editor.log when .csproj's get rewritten to disk, makes it easier to figure out why .csproj's are getting reloaded in C# IDE's. Messages are prefixed with "\[C# Project\]".
    
*   Editor: Made editor on-demand shader compilation asynchronous, not blocking the editor while compiling the shader on the first time usage. The rendering will happen using a replacement shader until the actual shader variant is available. The feature can be enabled/disabled in the editor preferences with "Asynchronous Shader Compilation" checkbox.
    
*   Editor: new keyboard Shortcut Manager configuration interface.
    
*   Editor: Script recompiles triggered by internal Unity systems are now logged to the Editor.log with \[ScriptCompilation\] prefix in messages
    
*   GI: Added preview version of GPU lightmapper in Windows Editor. Can be selected in the Lighting window. The lightmapper is based on OpenCL and RadeonRays and will work on all modern GPUs with more than 2Gb of dedicated memory.
    
*   GI: GPU Lightmapper: Support for double sided GI flag on the materials.
    
*   GI: GPU Lightmapper: Support for shadow casting and receiving on meshes.
    
*   Graphics: Add support of any GPU formats for RenderTexture
    
*   Graphics: Added API support for setting entire constant buffer contents at once: \[\[Material.SetConstantBuffer\]\] and \[\[Shader.SetGlobalConstantBuffer\]\]
    
*   Graphics: Initial sparse texture support for Vulkan
    
*   Graphics: Native rendering plugin support for Vulkan
    
*   iOS: Added support for rendering Unity on top of native UI on iOS and tvOS
    
*   Mobile: Wide Color Gamut support for Vulkan and OpenGLES
    
*   Package Manager: Add Package manifest inspector
    
*   Particles: Experimental support for using the C# Job System to manipulate particle data
    
*   Physics: Added methods to determine closest point to a Collider2D. Added Physics2D.ClosestPoint, Rigidbody2D.ClosestPoint & Collider2D.ClosestPoint.
    
*   Profiler: UnityEditor.Experimental.Networking.PlayerConnection.EditorGUILayout.AttachToPlayerDropdown added to public API to offer a one-stop solution to display and change the player the editor is attached to.
    
*   Scripting: Enabled incremental Garbage Collector on Universal Windows Platform
    
*   Scripting: Experimental support for incremental Garbage Collection to avoid GC Spikes
    
*   Shaders: Added new user variant directives shader\_feature\_local and multi\_compile\_local that do not contribute towards the global keyword count
    
*   Shaders: Added support for BLENDWEIGHTS and BLENDINDICES semantics in vertex shaders
    
*   Timeline: Added API support for track-level animation
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Added support for building ARM64 applications
    
*   Video: Video H.265 transcode support
    
*   WebGL: Add WebAssembly streaming instantiation support
    

#### Backwards Compatibility Breaking Changes

*   Android: If SRP is active, blit mode is forced to "Never blit" on Android.
    
*   Android: Remove internal build system
    
*   Android: Updated bluetooth headset detection on Android 6+ to avoid using deprecated method
    
*   Editor: Merged Shortcut Profile dropdown and the Shortcut Profile options cog into a single dropdown
    
*   GI: Moved tetrahedralization code to the player
    
*   GI: Stitching and probe deringing are now turned on by default
    
*   Graphics: Added override for LightmapEmissionFlagsProperty, allowing display of emission GI options without checking for an emissision color property (\_EmissionColor)
    
*   Graphics: ASTC 'fast' and 'best' compressor quality options are now actually different from 'normal'
    
*   Graphics: Disallow rentry into SRP rendering (i.e disallow recursive rendering).
    
*   Graphics: Dynamic batching checkbox is now hidden if a Scriptable Render Pipeline is active.
    
*   Graphics: Removed graphics emulation from Editor
    
*   Graphics: \[Metal\] Debug groups are now visible in Release builds
    
*   iOS: UnityWebRequest will use new backend based on NSURLSession. Old NSURLConnection backend is still available (commented out in trampoline).
    
*   iOS: Updated Game View resolution options with iPhone XR/XS/XS Max
    
*   Linux: Deprecate Linux x86 and Universal targets. These will be removed in future Unity versions.
    
*   Physics: Increase default max angular velocity to 50 radian per second, as default value was way too low
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Removed .NET scripting backend
    
*   WebGL: Removed asm.js PreBuilt Engine option
    
*   WebGL: Removed MemorySize and LinkerTarget options from Editor
    
*   WebGL: rename gameInstance to unityInstance
    
*   WebGL: Set default compression to Brotli
    
*   WebGL: Update Emscripten to version 1.38.11
    

#### Improvements

*   Android: Disable various Adreno Vulkan driver workarounds for latest drivers
    
*   Android: Enumerate all Android audio input device options, including the lowest-latency option, which can be selected via the name "Android voice recognition input".
    
*   Android: Native Systrace profiling support is implemented
    
*   Android: Use OpenSL instead of AudioTrack on more devices. This reduces audio input and output latency.
    
*   Animation: Added Experimental methods to AnimationPlay
    
*   Animation: Added property Avatar.humanDescription.
    
*   Animation: Aligned all Animator StateMachine nodes on the grid
    
*   Animation: Improved performance for AvatarBuilder
    
*   Animation: Improved support for animationjobs with TransformStreamHandle bound to transform added dynamicaly at runtime.
    
*   Animation: Upgraded the animation window preview/playback engine to use the Playable API.
    
*   Asset Import: Added Support for cameras in Sketchup Importer.
    
*   Asset Import: Extended Optimize Mesh option on Model asset import settings to allow optimization of Vertex Order and Polygon Order to be controlled independently rather than both being controlled from the same flag
    
*   Asset Import: Improved performance of DXT1/BC1 and DXT5/BC3 texture compression. Note that although compression quality is not affected subtly different compressed results will likely be produced
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Scriptable objects that are loaded before a refresh/import, will after a refresh/import be reloaded, if the underlying asset had been modified before the refresh/import. This means that after the refresh/import scriptables objects will have the modified values from modified assets. Before this change, the scriptable object would get "null" value (when using operator==) after the refresh/import.
    
*   Compute: \* Allows more of the scripting CommandBuffers utility functions to be used with command buffers executed on async compute, such as getting temporary render targets.
    
    *   Adds the concept of execution flags to CommandBuffers describing how they are intended to be executed and allowing for better error handling as those command buffers are built in script. This allows for generating exceptions when adding commands not valid for async compute.
    *   Added in editor detection for potential GPU deadlock case where a user creates a GPU fence in one command buffer but then never executes that command buffer.
*   Editor: Added Clear on Build option in Console
    
*   Editor: Added field of view axis selection dropdown in camera inspector
    
*   Editor: Columns in the Shortcut Manager shortcuts list are now resizable
    
*   Editor: Improved performance of the model importer inspector material remapping section.
    
*   Editor: Reworked Android keystore and key creation UI
    
*   GI: GPU lightmapper: Dump memory report to Editor.log when falling back to CPU lightmapper.
    
*   GI: Lightprobe Gizmos are now affected by postprocessing
    
*   GI: Optimize baking of low occupancy lightmaps when using GPU lightmapper.
    
*   Graphics: Added filtering for sorting layers to the ScriptableRenderContext
    
*   Graphics: Allow import and skinning of models with up to 32 bone weights for each vertex.
    
*   Graphics: Changing the motion vectors behavior: 1 - Nodes with Camera Motion only are not skipped anymore when the exclude motion vector flag is on 2 - Only submeshes with an explicit motion vector pass are skipped when exclude motion vector flag is on
    
*   Graphics: Frame debugger now displays shader properties for compute shader dispatches
    
*   Graphics: GraphicsFences are now available on Vulkan, Metal, D3D11, OpenGL and OpenGL ES rendering backends.
    
*   Graphics: Not evaluating the light rectangles for oblique projection matrices
    
*   Graphics: Perform mesh creation for terrain details (e.g. grass) on parallel threads
    
*   Graphics: Revamp of the DrawProcedural script API:
    
    *   DrawProceduralNow replaces the existing API, because it submits draw calls immediately. The new DrawProcedural API submits calls to color, shadows, reflections etc. This now matches the DrawMesh/DrawMeshNow API.
    *   Added overloads of DrawProcedural that take an Index Buffer
*   Graphics: Texture Mipmap streaming now supported in editor Edit Mode when enabled in editor settings.
    
*   Graphics: Update ASTC texture compressor with faster multi-core compression
    
*   iOS: Added launch screen image fields for iPhone XS and XS Max
    
*   iOS: Refactored iOS device generation parsing
    
*   Mobile: Added support for RGBM and native HDR lightmaps
    
*   Package Manager: Log project load time in _Editor.log_
    
*   Package Manager: Release of Package Manager UI v2.1.0-preview-1
    
    *   Support maximize/minimize
    *   Support PackageManager UI saved maximized in a layout
    *   Keep track of selected built-in package
    *   Keep track of last selected filter
    *   Fix UI Layout
*   Package Manager: Removed reference to "package" or "package manager" in the extension manager logs to avoid confusion with the new Package Manager system.
    
*   Package Manager: Use the _enablePackageManagerTraces_ command argument to also increase the logging level of the upm process.
    
*   Particles: Add a new mode to the Texture Sheet Animation Module, allowing animations to be specific to each mesh being used
    
*   Particles: Expose particle mesh indices to script, allowing users to get/set which mesh each particle is using
    
*   Particles: Expose particle mesh indices to shaders, allowing users to know which mesh each particle is using
    
*   Physics: Added "Collision.contactCount" to retrieve the number of contacts
    
*   Physics: Added "Collision.GetContact(index)" to retrieve a specific contact.
    
*   Physics: Added "Collision.GetContacts(array)" to retrieve all contacts.
    
*   Physics: Added overload of Rigidbody2D.MoveRotation that accepts a Quaternion.
    
*   Physics: Ensure that the Inspector "Info" rollout on the Rigidbody2D and Collider2D components persist their expanded state when entering/exiting play-mode or moving between components.
    
*   Physics: OnCollisionEnter, OnCollisionStay & OnCollisionExit now do not create any GC allocations.
    
*   Physics: OnCollisionEnter2D, OnCollisionStay2D & OnCollisionExit2D now do not create any GC allocations.
    
*   Playables: Made IPlayableBehaviour.OnBehaviourPause be invoked when the Playable is paused AND when the PlayableGraph is paused, instead of OR. (1077846)
    
*   Plugins: Preloading is now supported for any native plugin. Added PluginImporter.isPreloaded.
    
*   Profiler: Added Mono.JIT and Mono.DomainUnload profiler markers
    
*   Profiler: Enabled automatic scripting threads profiling for il2cpp
    
*   Profiler: Increased minimum memory usage for profiler to 4MB in Players and 64MB in the Editor.
    
*   Profiler: Will now show time to wait for the next frame consistently accross all player platforms regardless of how vsync is implemented.
    
*   ps4: Add support for sensitivity for touchpad pointer emulation (PS4Input.touchpadMouseSensitivity )
    
*   Scripting: Added support for Visual Studio 2019 code editor.
    
*   Shaders: Improve shader debugging by disabling the optimiser when generating debug shaders i.e. #pragma enable\_d3d11\_debug\_symbols.
    
*   Terrain: Added a direction bias to the Terrain smoothing brush, to control blur to either go up or down
    
*   Terrain: Allows shadowCastingMode to be set on terrain.
    
*   Timeline: Performance improvements in Timeline Editor Window display
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Added support for building player with Visual Studio 2019.
    
*   Web: Added support to write to file in append mode in DownloadHandlerFile
    
*   WebGL: Add Quit() function support to the unity instance
    
*   WebGL: Added UnityLoader.instantiateAsync() which returns a JS Promise
    
*   XR: Linear color space now works on Oculus Go and Quest. For Gear VR, driver issues may prevent linear from working with S7 Adreno phones on Android 7.0.
    
*   XR: The wireframe shader now works with the single-pass instancing stereo rendering mode.
    
*   XR: Update Oculus minimum supported version to 1.28.0
    
*   XR: XR LWRP Improvements:
    
    1.  Single-pass double wide rendering has been implemented as a stereo rendering method fallback for android devices that do not support single-pass instancing or multi-view.
    2.  Stereo multi-pass rendering is no longer selectable from the player settings when an SRP is in use.
    3.  Single-Pass stereo rendering will automatically be selected if multi-pass was previously selected before using an SRP.
    4.  Android y-flip issues should be resolved.
    5.  Shadows render correctly on all android platforms when using multi-view stereo rendering.
    6.  The VR watermark will no longer be rendered on an HMD.
    7.  OpenGL invalid state errors could no longer be present in adb logs.

#### API Changes

*   2D: Added a new property TextureGenerationSettings.secondarySpriteTextures, which lets you assign secondary textures to the Sprite texture asset that is being generated.
    
*   2D: Added a new property TextureImporter.secondarySpriteTextures, which lets you assgin secondary textures to a texture asset imported as Sprite.
    
*   2D: Added a new struct UnityEngine.SecondarySpriteTexture, which encapsulates a Texture2D and its shader property name to give Sprite-based renderers access to a secondary texture, in addition to the main Sprite texture.
    
*   Android: Added Android API 28 (Pie)
    
*   Android: Added AndroidJNI methods which use sbyte parameters or return sbyte values (1069247)
    
*   Android: Deprecated AndroidJNI methods which use byte parameters or return byte values (1069247)
    
*   Android: Removed public API for setting the JVM Max heap size
    
*   Animation: Add AnimationStream.GetInputWeight(int index)
    
*   Animation: Add Animator.BindCustomStreamProperty(string propertyName, PropertyType type) to UnityEngine.Experimental.Animations
    
*   Animation: Can't write into a scene handle anymore (experimental API)
    
*   Animation: Obsolete delay features in Playable (Playable.Set/GetDelay)
    
*   Asset Import: Added AssetImporter.SupportsRemappedAssetType to inform the user user if the importer supports remapping certain asset types (for example Materials)
    
*   Asset Import: Added MaterialEditorExtensions.PerformBumpMapCheck - Iterates over all material properties with the Normal flag and checks that the textures referenced by these properties are imported as normal maps.
    
*   Editor: Added API for managing shortcuts in the editor (UnityEditor.ShortcutManagement)
    
*   Editor: Added CompilationPipeline.compilationStarted and CompilationPipeline.compilationFinished events for when compilation starts and finishes in the editor.
    
*   Editor: Added CompilationPipeline.GetAssemblyDefinitionFilePathFromAssemblyReference, CompilationPipeline.GetAssemblyDefinitionReferenceType, CompilationPipeline.GUIDToAssemblyDefinitionReferenceGUID, CompilationPipeline.AssemblyDefinitionReferenceGUIDToGUID APIs for dealing with Assembly Definition File references that can be either a GUID or assembly name.
    
*   Editor: Added EditorApplication.EnterPlayMode() and EditorApplication.ExitPlayMode()
    
*   Editor: Added EditorUtility.GetDirtyCount() which returns how many times SetDirty is invoked upon the specified asset. Reset to zero when saved.
    
*   Editor: Added EditorUtility.IsDirty() which returns if any SetDirty is invoked upon the specified asset.
    
*   Editor: Added Handles.TransformHandle()
    
*   Editor: Block illegal commands for Editor and PlayMode tests when in playmode (1093572)
    
*   Editor: Exposed method to check if a profile ID is valid
    
*   Editor: Fix input field for sliders that has width less than 150 with no label ([1078003](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/impossible-to-enter-sliders-value-in-the-input-field-when-imgui-slider-is-of-a-width-of-less-than-150))
    
*   Graphics: Added Camera.HorizontalToVerticalFieldOfView(float horizontalFieldOfView, float aspectRatio) and Camera.VerticalToHorizontalFieldOfView(float verticalFieldOfView, float aspectRatio) methods.
    
*   Graphics: Added Material.ComputeCRC() function which returns a CRC hash value of the material asset content.
    
*   Graphics: Added Shader.GetDependency() function used for querying one of the shader dependency shaders by name.
    
*   Graphics: Added SortingLayerRange to FilterRenderSettings to allow for the filtering of sorting layers by ScriptableRenderContext
    
*   Graphics: Added Texture2D.normalTexture property which returns a small neutral normal texture.
    
*   Graphics: Added UnityEngine.Rendering.GraphicsFence class to replace GPUFence
    
*   Graphics: Exposed settting for number of jobs used when using occlusion culling.
    
*   Graphics: UnityEngine.Rendering.GPUFence class has been deprecated and replaced with UnityEngine.Rendering.GraphicsFence
    
*   GraphView: Added Renamable capability to GraphElement
    
*   GraphView: canAcceptDrop callback added to BlackBoardSection
    
*   GraphView: GraphView.GetElementByGuid() now returns first element with the given GUID, within all of GraphView, not just elements contained in layers.
    
*   GraphView: OnResized callback added to MiniMap
    
*   GraphView: Resizer manipulator has new constructor w/ OnResized callback parameter
    
*   Kernel: TypeTrees are now have a central cache.
    
*   Memory Profiler: Added Dispose functionality for the PackedMemorySnapshot class in order to prevent instances from keeping a lock longer than necessary on the snapshot file.
    
*   Memory Profiler: Added UnityEditor.Profiling.Memory.Experimental.PackedMemorySnapshot.Convert to handle conversion from MemoryProfiler.PackedMemorysnapshot object to UnityEditor.Profiling.Memory.Experimental.PackedMemorySnapshot file.
    
*   Multiplayer: Added NetworkTransport.SetMulticastLock API to acquire/release multicast locks. On android this is required to be able to receive broadcast packets. ([988573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onreceivedbroadcast-not-called-on-android-slash-ios-devices-when-acting-as-a-client))
    
*   Package Manager: Expose the type property of PackageInfo
    
*   Physics: Added "Rigidbody2D.SetRotation(angle)" to allow the body z-axis rotation to be set in degrees.
    
*   Physics: Added "Rigidbody2D.SetRotation(quaternion)" allow the body rotation to be set by Quaternion.
    
*   Physics: Added Collision.contactCount to retrieve the number of contacts.
    
*   Physics: Added Collision.GetContact to retrieve a specific contact.
    
*   Physics: Added Collision.GetContact(List) and Collision2D.GetContact(List) methods.
    
*   Physics: Added Collision.GetContacts to retrieve all contacts.
    
*   Physics: Added Physics.reuseCollisionCallbacks to control if the Collision instance passed to OnCollisionXXX calls is reused.
    
*   Physics: Added Physics2D.reuseCollisionCallbacks to control if the Collision instance passed to OnCollisionXXX2D calls is reused.
    
*   Physics: Exposed additional query types in the PhysicsScene class. Note that only the non-allocating ones are available.
    
*   Physics: Exposed Physics.GetIgnoreCollision()
    
*   Playables: Added FrameData.effectivePlayState to pass the accumulated playstate of the Playable (1077846)
    
*   Playables: Added PlayableOutput.GetEditorName, an editor only method to get the PlayableOutput name.
    
*   Profiler: Added Profiler.EmitFrameMetaData API which allows to save arbitrary data to the profiler stream and read it in the Editor
    
*   Profiler: Exposed UnityEditor.Profiling.HierarchyFrameDataView API that allows to access CPU profiler data in a hierarchical way
    
*   Profiler: The Editor GUI used to connect to a player (from Profiler or Console Window) is now exposed. It's placed under UnityEditor.Experimental.Networking.PlayerConnection where EditorGUIUtility.GetAttachToPlayerState(EditorWindow parentWindow) will get the connection state with which it can be drawn using EditorGUILayout/EditorGUI.AttachToPlayerDropdown.
    
*   Scripting: Added GarbageCollector.isIncremental, GarbageCollector.incrementalTimeSliceNanoseconds, GarbageCollector.CollectIncremental
    
*   Shaders: Added functions to ShaderUtil class to retrieve and clear errors/warnings from Shader compilation and added ShaderMessage class to provide error/warning details
    
*   Shaders: Obsoleted the \[ShaderIncludePath\] attribute. All shader header files must be under the Assets folder or in a package. To include shader headers directly from a package, use #include "Packages//
    
*   Terrain: Added New version of TerrainTools ShowBrushGUI() callback with flags, to choose which controls to display
    
*   Terrain: Improved Terrain Stamp tool to have better controls, and to behave better across terrains of different height.
    
*   Terrain: Obsoleted the TerrainTools IOnPaint.RepaintAllInspectors() function, replaced with Repaint(RepaintFlags), which is available in all TerrainTool callback interfaces.
    
*   Timeline: Exposed methods to create and manipulate track-level animation curves.
    
*   Timeline: Exposed methods to work with infinite clips on animation tracks
    
*   Timeline: Make TrackAsset.CreatePlayable(PlayableGraph, GameObject, TimelineClip) virtual to match behaviour from 2018.1 ([1096350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/method-trackasset-dot-createplayable-cannot-be-overridden))
    
*   XR: Add a command to set single-pass stereo mode with command buffer. (1096603)
    

#### Fixes

*   2D: Added missing docs for TextureImportSettings.SpriteMeshType (1080294)
    
*   2D: After updating from 2017.4 to 2018.x serialized sprite atlas attributes values are different than in the Inspector ([1085023](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-updating-from-2017-dot-4-to-2018-dot-x-serialized-sprite-atlas-attributes-values-are-different-than-in-the-inspector))
    
*   2D: Allow user to reset the Sorting Layer and Sorting Order settings of Renderer components from the Inspector Settings cog button. (1096375)
    
*   2D: Crash on SpriteAtlas::Add when passing array of nulls to SpriteAtlas.Add ([1089125](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-spriteatlas-add-when-passing-array-of-nulls-to-spriteatlas-dot-add))
    
*   2D: Editor crashes in GameObjectHierarchyProperty::CountRemaining when undoing the creation of Sprite Mask object ([1074128](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-in-gameobjecthierarchyproperty-countremaining-when-undoing-the-creation-of-sprite-mask-object))
    
*   2D: Editor crashes with SpriteShapeUtility::SpriteShapeUtils\_SpriteShapeFillSpriteInfo when opening specific project ([1084948](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-spriteshapeutility-spriteshapeutils-spriteshapefillspriteinfo-when-opening-specific-project))
    
*   2D: Error message shown when SVG is added to SpriteShapeProfile, crashes when Spriteshape is added to Scene ([1068117](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-spriteshape-error-message-shown-when-svg-is-added-to-spriteshapeprofile-crashes-when-spriteshape-is-added-to-scene))
    
*   2D: Sprite with SpriteShapeBody Shader gets graphical artifacts when rotating the camera ([1079942](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-with-spriteshapebody-shader-gets-graphical-artifacts-when-rotating-the-camera))
    
*   2D: Sprites reference both the original Sprite assets and Sprite Atlas resulting in increased memory usage ([1071494](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-reference-both-the-original-sprite-assets-and-sprite-atlas-resulting-in-increased-memory-usage))
    
*   2D: Sprites rendered through Command Buffers not displayed until rendered once with a default Renderer ([1097465](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-rendered-through-command-buffers-not-displayed-until-rendered-once-with-a-default-renderer))
    
*   2D: When click and drag on an unselected Sprite in Sprite Editor Window will show a normal cursor to indicate draging of Sprite instead of 'resize' cursor for resizing border Old behaviour https://drive.google.com/open?id=1cOVhoE3-sXfV7o1ScJQYJDAzEFa9R8t7 New Behaviour https://drive.google.com/open?id=1qWljJXFSrCebz07\_aa\_4gE0m0azVQbPf ([1077700](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trying-to-move-the-green-outline-on-a-sprite-in-the-sprite-editor-moves-the-entire-rect-when-clicking-on-an-unselected-sprite))
    
*   Android: Enabled EGL sRGB backbuffer in Android 9.0
    
*   Android: Fix black screen when resuming app which was being recorded with google play (FMOD deadlock) ([1046752](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-google-play-video-recording-freezes-the-application-when-unlocking-the-device))
    
*   Android: Fix black screen when trying to use linear rendering with 16bit backbuffer
    
*   Android: Fix dynamic resolution on some older Mali GPUs on Vulkan ([1065227](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-dynamic-resolution-doesnt-work-on-samsung-galaxy-s6-edge-plus))
    
*   Android: Fix for Bluetooth headset related crash when application doesn't use sounds ([1086597](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-android-crash-on-audiomanager-shutdownreinitializeandreload-with-bluetooth-headset-pairing))
    
*   Android: Fix for the non-consistent FixedUpdate calls ([1071756](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-fixedupdate-scheduling-is-unpredicatable))
    
*   Android: Fix gradle builds failing when using quotes and backslashes in keystore passwords and aliases ([996504](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gradle-build-fails-if-keystore-slash-key-password-contains-a-single-slash-double-quote), [1071288](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gradle-build-system-does-not-escape-backslash-character-on-keystore-alias-password))
    
*   Android: Fix OnReceivedBroadcast not called on Android devices when acting as a client ([988573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onreceivedbroadcast-not-called-on-android-slash-ios-devices-when-acting-as-a-client))
    
*   Android: Fix OpenGL ES 3.0 shader compile error when generated code requires bitfieldInsert
    
*   Android: Fix possible missing draws when using Vulkan on Adreno (1094348)
    
*   Android: Fixed Activity has leaked ServiceConnection errors when calling Application.Unload ([1091255](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/activity-has-leaked-serviceconnection-errors-when-calling-application-dot-unload))
    
*   Android: Fixed Display.systemHeight and Display.systemWidth ([1090830](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-display-dot-systemheight-and-systemwidth-return-rendering-values-instead-of-screen-native-values))
    
*   Android: Fixed problem with exceptions when exporting Android Gradle project ([1089510](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gradle-export-throws-trying-to-add-unity-classes-dot-jar-slash-androidmanifest-dot-xml-to-the-list-of-output-files))
    
*   Android: Impvoe performance of cubemap convolution on Mali GPUs ([989820](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vr-android-very-poor-performance-on-galaxy-s8))
    
*   Android: Keyboard.onTextInput, Keyboard.onIMECompositionChange will be correctly called for physical and virtual keyboard events.
    
*   Android: Mounting additional apk files to support dynamic features is implemented (1078212)
    
*   Animation: Added auto-cleanup of AnimationClip's tracked references on domain reload to avoid a hard to reproduce crash (1046821)
    
*   Animation: Double clicking an AnimationClip will open the AnimationWindow. ([1058422](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/double-clicking-animation-clip-does-not-open-animation-editor-window))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where AnimationClip.empty always returns true in Standalone builds when Animation Type is set to Legacy ([1061700](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-animation-type-is-set-to-legacy-animation-clip-could-not-be-loaded-from-assetbundle-in-build))
    
*   Animation: Fixed Animation Window selection of nested Animation component hierarchies children of Animator component hierarchies. ([1089015](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-window-shows-parent-animations-for-child-elements-when-parent-has-animator-component-and-children-do-not))
    
*   Animation: Fixed crash if there's a cycle in an animation graph ([792020](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playables-crash-on-cyclic-graphs))
    
*   Animation: Fixed crash when opening animator window on bad animator controller setup ([1080436](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-if-using-a-specific-animator-controller-on-play-mode-when-opening-animator-window))
    
*   Animation: Fixed crash when selecting a faulty bone after AutoMap in avatar configurator. (1075651)
    
*   Asset Import: Changed the icon of the assets generated using ScriptedImporters to match the icon of other model files.
    
*   Audio: AudioSource.GetSpatializerFloat and AudioSource.SetSpatializerFloat can now be called successfully before an AudioSource is played.
    
*   Audio: Fix adding new keys to the curve in audio source inspector via context menu ([1085732](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/failure-to-add-a-keyframe-to-a-curve-when-right-clicking-on-a-curve-and-choosing-add-key-in-the-audio-source-3d-sound-settings))
    
*   Audio: Fixed loud clicking sound during automatic preview when multiple audio clips are selected in the Project window. ([1049785](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/loud-clicking-sound-starts-playing-when-selecting-more-than-one-audio-clip-in-project-window))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed AssetBundleBuild.addressableNames not triggering an asset bundle rebuild when the property changed ([996380](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-addressablenames-doesnt-trigger-bundle-rebuild))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Will remove duplicate mono folder in Mac Standalone builds, removing around 500 kb of unneeded data from builds
    
*   DX12: Fix crash when scene is using dpeth only + HDR Camera (1087306)
    
*   DX12: Fixed a crash when using lightSource.AddCommandBuffer and exiting Player that has Graphics Jobs enabled ([958323](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/directx12-crash-on-unitymain-when-using-lightsource-dot-addcommandbuffer-and-exiting-player-that-has-graphics-jobs-enabled))
    
*   DX12: Fixed a crash with memory allocation issues when using a camera with the depth or don't clear flags ([969582](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dx12-crash-with-memory-allocation-issues-when-using-a-camera-with-the-depth-or-dont-clear-flags))
    
*   DX12: Fixed where test runner crashes while running test containing RenderTexture instantiation from command prompt (1015725)
    
*   Editor: Added a mechanism for displaying an error message when any of the recent projects contain an invalid or missing ProjectSettings.txt file. ([1002683](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/merge-conflict-in-projectversion-dot-txt-causes-unable-to-parse-file-error-on-any-project-opened))
    
*   Editor: Clear compile errors from the console when switching platform. (1078935)
    
*   Editor: Corrected a typo in 2D/3D scene view toggle popup ([1048139](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-slash-3d-toggle-button-in-scene-view-has-toggled-mispelled-as-togggled))
    
*   Editor: CSharpNamespaceParser fixes: Whitespace around # in conditional ([1077417](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-in-csharpnameparser))
    
*   Editor: Diagnostic warning icon drawn under text (1093938)
    
*   Editor: Editor systematically crashes when opening client project View on Crashes (1076793)
    
*   Editor: Errors are thrown when a prefab with more that 50 game components is selected in the Hierarchy window ([1085685](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-a-prefab-with-more-that-50-game-components-is-selected-in-the-hierarchy-window))
    
*   Editor: Fix -nographics parameter does not include command line activation operations ([1043511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/using-nographics-causes-a-command-line-license-activation-to-fail))
    
*   Editor: Fix composite fields where the inner component is to big to fit in. (1074392)
    
*   Editor: Fix crash if null texture in GUIStyle.scaledbackground ([1074485](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-guistyle-drawbackground-when-opening-custom-imgui-window))
    
*   Editor: Fix crash when launching Editor on Mac with -batchmode as first argument ([1059028](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-unity-crashes-with-segmentation-fault-11-or-bus-error-10-when-launching-with-batchmode-followed-by-projectpath))
    
*   Editor: Fix crash when using keyboard shortcuts with Mac Editor while Unity project is loading ([1004336](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-holding-cmd-plus-while-creating-slash-opening-project-opens-preferences-window-before-editor-is-opened))
    
*   Editor: Fix define expression parsing in namespace parser ([1085267](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/complex-number-if-preprocessor-directives-stop-evaluating-when-a-false-value-occurs-in-an-or-statement))
    
*   Editor: Fix game view dimensions ([1083316](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/box-colliders-position-has-a-slight-offset-when-using-a-raycast-to-hit-it))
    
*   Editor: Fix game view mouse offset (1097051)
    
*   Editor: Fix Gizmos.DrawFrustum not rendering near clip plane in gizmo space. (1081967)
    
*   Editor: Fix gui label tooltips (1057359)
    
*   Editor: Fix incorrect insertion of game objects in the hierarchy in particular workflow ([1069565](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-object-is-not-inserted-correctly-in-hierarchy-window-when-placed-after-child-object))
    
*   Editor: Fix issue with overriden Main Menu shortcuts
    
*   Editor: Fix issue with RuntimeInitializeOnLoadMethodAttribute not working in players builds inside player-only code blocks (e.g. #if !UNITY\_EDITOR) and inside player-only .asmdef assemblies ([922692](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/conditional-compilation-problem-with-runtimeinitializeonloadmethod), 1071599)
    
*   Editor: Fix JPEG logo assets for UWP builds not added to Visual Studio project ([1066142](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-exported-project-does-not-have-visual-assets-set-correctly-in-package-manifest))
    
*   Editor: Fix ListView.SelectionChanged throwing ArgumentOutOfRangeExcpetion (1084218)
    
*   Editor: fix minmaxslider dragelement position, set it absolute (used to be relative, which broke layout) (1090242)
    
*   Editor: Fix response file references not recognized in VS ([1066726](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/httpclient-namespace-is-not-recognized-in-vs-with-net-4-dot-x))
    
*   Editor: Fix Scene icon not updated when changing the png file (1084630)
    
*   Editor: Fix state propagation when a VisualElement is added to a hierarchy. (1093728)
    
*   Editor: Fix to enable only seleected menu items (cut/copy/paste/delete/select all) when modal windows are shown - OSX (1092367)
    
*   Editor: Fix Undo/Redo MenuItems changing label after rebinding shortcut
    
*   Editor: Fix Unity crash when save assets dialog is displayed for exiting the editor. ([1062146](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-saving-animation-clip-with-verify-saving-assets-setting-checked))
    
*   Editor: Fix window layout restoration (1078964)
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where continuously opening and closing Utility windows could crash the Editor on OSX ([1046287](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-on-clicking-animation-curve-created-using-uielement-for-mac-osx))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where creating an Editable Font Copy was throwing console errors on Windows platform. ([1064686](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/could-not-write-font-material-error-is-thrown-when-trying-to-create-editable-copy-of-font))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where Editor could crash when closing the Editor while Asset store or services tab is loading. ([1024048](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/closing-unity-while-a$-or-services-tab-is-loading-crashes-editor))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where Grouped Layers are categorized separately. ([1068422](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/creating-layer-groups-with-the-slash-symbol-creates-multiple-groups-with-the-same-name-containing-only-a-single-layer))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where Handles.RotationHandle would not clip correctly when Handles.matrix was not identity. (1095582)
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where Project window scroll bar blinks when the assets from the last row are selected. ([1076266](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-window-scrollbar-disappears-after-selecting-assets-from-the-bottom-row))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where red text could appear in the Project search bar along with "style not found" console warnings, while searching in play mode. ([1086419](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/red-text-in-project-search-bar-when-searchingwhile-in-play-mode))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where TearDown and UnityTearDown are skipped for tests that fail due to errors logged with UnityEngine.Log.Error. ([1077871](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/testrunner-tests-are-not-torn-down-properly-when-they-fail-due-to-logging-an-error))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where usage of Obsolete APIs could spam the console window with infinite null reference exceptions. ([1085675](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-causes-infinite-nullreferenceexception-errors-even-after-deletion))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue which caused unpredictable behavior with duplicate terrain inspectors. Now user is notified of duplicate inspector. (1080942)
    
*   Editor: Fixed Assert.Ignore() tests do not exit Play Mode ([1071127](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playmode-tests-do-not-exit-play-mode-in-2018-dot-2-versions-of-unity))
    
*   Editor: Fixed color picker dialog. The color box was showing incorrect gradients as well as the alpha channel slider ([1079791](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/color-picker-palette-has-graphical-artifacts-when-color-space-is-set-to-linear))
    
*   Editor: Fixed color picker ignores the color hex code when copied with ([804231](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/color-picker-ignores-the-color-hex-code-when-copied-with))
    
*   Editor: Fixed crash coming from homewindow callback function ([1090455](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wild-crash-editor-crashes-on-homewindowhandler-learntabopenedcallback-while-opening-project-or-entering-play-mode))
    
*   Editor: Fixed crash when calling RenderTexture.ReleaseTemporary twice for same texture ([1091561](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-renderbuffermanager-textures-garbagecollect-when-calling-rendertexture-dot-releasetemporary-twice))
    
*   Editor: Fixed crash when creating new brushes without assets (1086675, [1086739](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-at-eventmanager-invokeeventcommon-or-freezes-after-creating-a-new-brush))
    
*   Editor: Fixed decimal values using comma instead of dot when OS locale has been changed to non-english language. ([1089361](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-editor-uses-os-locale-settings-i-dot-e-commas-instead-of-dots-in-float-values-with-net-4-dot-6))
    
*   Editor: Fixed invalid blending of texture with the background color. (1073506)
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue in the handling of UnitySetup if an exception is thrown or logged. ([1085288](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/exception-in-setup-doesnt-cause-tests-to-fail))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with editor crash when reordering game objects in a particular workflow (1097118)
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with filtering of .spm tree models ([1082272](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-spm-tree-models-are-not-being-filtered-by-search-by-model-option))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with labels disappearing when ASCII character set is selected ([1068658](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/imgui-labels-that-use-fixed-character-set-disappear-when-transformed-with-gui-matrix))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with Undo not being enabled in a particular workflow ([1068662](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-unable-to-use-undo-if-editor-layout-is-set-to-default))
    
*   Editor: Fixed Memory leaks while selecting audio source in inspector (1086532)
    
*   Editor: Fixed null reference exception while modifying pre-muscle settings of an Avatar. ([1068870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/null-reference-exception-on-tweaking-the-pre-muscle-settings-of-a-avatar-when-scene-view-is-in-focus))
    
*   Editor: Fixed OS locale being used for Editor Windows. ([930798](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-editor-uses-os-locale-settings-i-dot-e-commas-instead-of-dots-in-float-inspector-fields-with-experimental-net-4-dot-6))
    
*   Editor: Fixed performance issues related to the test runner for projects with many assemblies.
    
*   Editor: Fixed serialization issue for MonoBehaviour's with no script causing a crash in save scene ([925313](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-output-l-when-saving-the-scene))
    
*   Editor: Fixed the bug where renaming an asset via Context Menu-->Rename after searching for it in Project Browser's One-Column Layout would not work ([1073306](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renaming-asset-while-searching-in-the-project-view-does-not-work-in-one-column-layout))
    
*   Editor: Fixed the issue with scale handle disappearing when the resolution of the monitor is changed ([1077720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-scale-handle-disappears-in-game-view-after-increasing-the-scale-factor-from-display-settings-of-the-monitor))
    
*   Editor: Fixed the sprite sheet grid artifact when clicking drop-down menus in texture inspector. ([1055868](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-sheet-grid-artifact-appears-when-clicking-drop-down-menus))
    
*   Editor: Generate for mcs.rsp reference (1053714)
    
*   Editor: GenericMenu.allowDuplicateNames now works for subMenus ([1074892](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enabled-genericmenu-dot-allowduplicatenames-doesnt-allow-duplicates-in-submenus))
    
*   Editor: Horizontal scrollbar added for Preset Manager (Settings) ([1087969](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assigned-presets-are-not-visible-in-preset-manager-when-settings-window-is-shrinks-horizontally))
    
*   Editor: Null protection when iterating using ExtendVisibleAsChild ([1083254](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-extendvisibleaschild-when-onsceneguidelegate-references-a-method-which-calls-handleutility-dot-pickgameobject))
    
*   Editor: Remove duplicate for Rider path discovery on Linux
    
*   Editor: Removed additional separator in GameObject hierarchy menu (1080882)
    
*   Editor: Restrict the insertion of menu items into a given submenu to a prescribed limit of 1000 items and displays a warning about the same. ([1039181](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-failed-failed-to-insert-item-error-is-thrown-when-scripts-count-exceed-the-limit-of-1167-scripts))
    
*   Editor: Set the width of Property handler object visible area to its default maximum ([1068811](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serializedproperty-children-not-visible-when-put-in-horizontal-group))
    
*   Editor: Shortcuts defined in the Main Menu / OS Menu now have the prefix "Main Menu/"
    
*   Editor: Unity Test Runner will not execute PrebuildSetup code for ignored playmode tests or tests that are disabled on the selected platform
    
*   Editor: VSCode open multiple windows when using Open C# Project menu ([1065936](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-visual-studio-code-windows-are-opened-when-opening-c-number-project-or-script))
    
*   Editor: When moving mouse over ListView scrollbar on Windows the cursor changed to a resize cursor (1084972)
    
*   Editor: \[OSX\] Fixed an issue where pressing CMD + Z when changing the project name causes a fatal error. ([1092471](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-fatal-error-occurs-in-the-launcher-when-cmd-plus-z-is-used-when-changing-the-project-name))
    
*   GI: Fix for performance issue where UpdateMaterials are run too often.
    
*   GI: Fixed a bug where a probeset with completely overlapping positions would cause the deringing settings array to become shifted.
    
*   GI: Fixed a case where the CPU progressive lightmapper could never finish a bake when LODs were baked (specifically when they would rasterize far outside of the UVs themselves). ([1066196](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightmap-baking-is-stuck-on-baking-dot-dot-dot-stage-when-baking-the-cave-demo))
    
*   GI: Fixed an issue where moving a camera in scene view would cause objects to flicker when realtime GI and GPU instancing were enabled. ([1053521](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/any-camera-movement-causes-object-flickering-when-gpu-instancing-and-realtime-global-illumination-are-enabled))
    
*   GI: Fixed by introducing proper round robin sampling between supersamples. ([936693](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/plm-supersampling-renders-indeterministic-results-with-direct-samples))
    
*   GI: Fixed issue where Baked Albedo and Baked Emissive lightmaps are not shown in the lightmap Preview window after baking GI (1044274)
    
*   GI: Fixed LightingData.asset creation, so that only the first lighting generation in non-auto mode marks the scene dirty (in single- and multi-scene scenarios). ([1067913](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/localfileid-changes-frequently-when-baking-lighting))
    
*   GI: Fixed UV Overlap preview not displaying after a manual bake. ([1087688](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-baked-uv-overlap-mode-isnt-loaded-after-selecting-it-in-the-lightmap-preview-window))
    
*   GI: Indirect probe lighting should be affected by the indirect intensity slider in the Progressive Lightmapper. ([1060939](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/indirect-intensity-slider-has-no-effect-on-lightprobes-in-progressive-backends))
    
*   GI: Reflection Probes progress bar doesnt get cleared when cancelling.
    
*   Graphics: Added extra validation for RT volumeDepth (1096019)
    
*   Graphics: Explicitly disallow destroying of temporary render textures ([1070564](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/calling-destroyimmediate-after-rendertexture-dot-releasetemporary-causes-the-crash-in-renderbuffermanager-textures-gettempbuffer))
    
*   Graphics: Fix issue with Animator preview not rendering grid in SRP (1044281)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed an issue that would crash the editor when copying raw depth buffers. ([1040591](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copying-directional-light-depthmap-in-rawdepth-mode-crashes-unity-editor))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash with Texture Mipmap streaming scene view debug mode when light maps are recalculated. ([1095546](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dereferencing-null-pptr-crash-when-using-non-directional-lightmap-and-texture-streaming-scene-view))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed frame debugger showing bad keywords on some cases when connected to standalone playe ([1070614](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-does-not-display-all-additional-shader-keywords-when-debugging-a-built-player))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed frame debugger texture tooltip to show correct dimension info for 3D textures
    
*   Graphics: Fixed memory overwrites in DX11 render target setting code.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed texture streaming crash bug which showed up when disabling and enabling renderers (1061165)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Vertex Compression not working for vectors with odd dimensions (positions and normals) ([1078795](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-ios-static-combined-meshes-dont-compress-odd-dimension-vertex-channels))
    
*   Graphics: MeshTopology.Quads generates a draw call that uses 3 point patches instead of 4 point ([1078885](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/meshtopology-dot-quads-generates-a-draw-call-that-uses-3-point-patches-instead-of-4-point))
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fixed crash when user created RT has unsupported sample count (1095433)
    
*   Graphics: Skip shadow lights and shadow casters culling when shadows are disabled ([1072624](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-shadows-disabling-shadows-in-quality-settings-doesnt-stop-shadow-caster-culling))
    
*   Graphics: Unity could crash if infinite dependency loop between "UsePass" and "Fallback" ([1068293](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-resolveusepasses-when-using-named-passes-from-other-shaders))
    
*   Graphics: Vulkan: Fixed a race condition between updating ComputeBuffers from script and rendering from them within Graphics jobs
    
*   iOS: Fix warnings related to launch image that were thrown when building for iOS in Xcode 10 ([1085602](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-game-crashes-when-forcing-portrait-upside-down-orientation-on-iphone-xs-slash-xs-max))
    
*   iOS: Fixed a crash when forcing Portrait Upside Down orientation on iPhone XS/XS Max ([1085662](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-wrong-screen-dot-safearea-on-iphone-on-start))
    
*   iOS: Fixed DiscardContents and GrabIntoRenderTexture interop on Metal ([1082159](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-depth-texture-in-commandbuffer-and-customized-depth-of-field-shader-will-damage-the-rendertexture))
    
*   iOS: Fixed full screen movie resetting after app minimize on iOS ([840951](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/handheld-dot-playfullscreenmovie-movie-resets-when-minimizing-and-maximizing-the-application))
    
*   iOS: Fixed incorrect Screen.safeArea on plus sized iPhones (1087954)
    
*   iOS: Fixed possible crash on app exit when destroying static objects ([1050875](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-native-static-const-std-string-causes-crash-in-signal-sigkill-when-using-xcode-9))
    
*   iOS: Fully uncoupled accelerometer from gyroscope as it should be ([1085244](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-the-accelerometer-stops-working-when-disabling-the-gyroscope-in-build))
    
*   iOS: iOS: fixed more issues with reporting orientation when autorotating and tweaking enabled orientations ([1075839](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-screen-dot-orientation-returns-upsidedown-value-after-using-screen-dot-autorotatetoportrait-when-device-is-in-portrait-mode), [1075855](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-unity-rendering-in-wrong-screen-orientation-after-auto-rotation-on-ios-using-screen-dot-orientation))
    
*   Linux: Linux: Crash in UnityEngine.Input.GetJoystickNames when controllers are removed & reconnected ([1080508](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-in-unityengine-dot-input-dot-getjoysticknames-when-controllers-with-comma-in-name-are-plugged-in))
    
*   Linux: Resolve an issue where double-clicking on Linux Standalone Players did not function in Nautilus. ([1047075](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-executable-doesnt-launch-and-has-incorrect-icon))
    
*   Mobile: Fix Ambient Occlusion in PostProcessing v2 on mobiles ([1059893](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-post-processing-ambient-occlusion-does-not-work))
    
*   Mobile: Fix Standard shader artifacts on mobiles
    
*   Mobile: Fixed flickering on objects when dynamic batching is enabled ([1061477](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-objects-are-flickering-when-dynamic-batching-is-enabled))
    
*   Mobile: Support for Bluetooth headphones microphone for both Android and iOS ([946201](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mobile-support-for-bluetooth-headphones-microphone))
    
*   OSX: Fixed "Using Metal Editor" now showing (1094058)
    
*   OSX: Fixed case where color picker would not properly select color when cursor size was beyond normal size ([1074188](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/retina-mac-color-picker-with-increased-cursor-size-does-not-pick-selected-color-from-the-screen))
    
*   OSX: Fixed GPU selector being always disabled ([1055634](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-cant-change-graphics-device-to-use-in-standalone-built-project))
    
*   OSX: Fixed resolution crash when setting to invalid values via script ([1070915](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-standalone-after-set-the-width-and-height-to-be-0-player-quits-then-crashes))
    
*   Package Manager: Add a confirm dialog and trace when user selects "Reset Packages to defaults" in "Help" menu ([1066143](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/confirmation-window-does-not-appear-when-pressing-on-help-reset-packages-to-defaults))
    
*   Package Manager: Fix drag and drop with local packages (1061439)
    
*   Particles: Added error message when trying to use a statically batched mesh in the Particle System ([1075564](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shape-cant-use-a-static-mesh-renderer-for-an-emission-shape))
    
*   Particles: Fixed prewarm bug causing particles to emit incorrectly ([1064065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particles-start-emitting-later-or-disappear-for-a-second-when-entering-play-mode-with-different-fixed-timestep-values))
    
*   Particles: Inverted how spherical wind zones affect Particle Systems, to fix inconsistency between particles and trees ([1053956](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trees-and-particles-behave-oppositely-while-being-affected-by-a-spherical-wind-zone))
    
*   Particles: Multi-selecting billboard and mesh particles hid the particle material slot in the inspector ([1077827](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renderer-multi-selecting-billboard-and-mesh-particles-hides-the-particle-material-slot-in-the-inspector))
    
*   Particles: Particle sorting was incorrect with ortho camera with negative near clipping plane when using sort by distance ([1056469](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cone-shape-particles-are-not-rendered-properly-in-camera-with-orthographic-projection-when-using-sort-by-distance))
    
*   Particles: Particle start speed now uses sub-frame time to distribute valuise correctly when using Curve modes ([1063952](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-start-speed-is-not-evaluated-in-the-sub-frame-time-intervals-when-using-curve-mode))
    
*   Particles: Particle System bounds ignored Shape Y scale when using Rectangle emission shape ([1064275](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-bounds-ignore-shape-y-scale-when-using-rectangle-emission-shape))
    
*   Particles: Particles with the Render alignment set to "Facing" billboarded incorrectly with directional lights ([1072493](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-particles-with-the-render-allignment-set-to-facing-act-incorrectly-with-directional-lights))
    
*   Particles: Setting the scale of a GameObject didn't adjust the Pivot value of a StretchedBillboard ParticleSystem ([1068381](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-setting-the-scale-of-a-gameobject-doesnt-adjust-the-pivot-value-of-a-particlesystems-renderer-module))
    
*   Particles: Sub Emitter particles were not randomized when using Auto Random Seed ([1068735](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sub-emitter-particles-are-not-randomized-when-using-auto-random-seed))
    
*   Physics: Ensure that 2D trigger/collision exit callbacks occur when destroying a GameObject inside a 2D trigger/collision callback ([1057320](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerexit2d-not-triggered-when-collider-gameobject-is-destroyed-from-another-colliders-ontriggerenter2d))
    
*   Physics: Ensure that 2D trigger/collision exit callbacks occur when disabling a GameObject or 2D collider component. ([1071700](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerexit2d-is-not-being-triggered-when-disabling-other-gameobject-with-a-trigger))
    
*   Physics: Fix a crash in the 2D physics manager on iOS upon start-up when Physics2D package is disabled. ([1080899](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-in-initialize-at-physicsmanager2d-before-the-splash-screen))
    
*   Physics: Fix crash when adding a MeshCollider without CookingOptions.CookForFasterSimulation. Fixed by PhysX 3.4 Upgrade. ([1041838](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adding-meshcollider-meshes-without-cookingoptions-dot-cookforfastersimulation-causes-crash-in-physx-subsortquick-sort4))
    
*   Physics: Fix issue where physics internal query data may not be updated if there are only static colliders in scene , causing shape cast issue ([1064897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-physics-dot-spherecast-does-not-properly-detect-collisions-when-clicking-on-certain-objects-spots))
    
*   Physics: Fixed an issue where raycast may fail on terrain collider ([1063586](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raycast-fails))
    
*   Physics: Stop NullReferenceException due to sprite-snapping when dragging a Joint2D anchor when the same GameObject contains a SpriteRenderer without an assigned Sprite. ([1077680](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-when-moving-around-a-springjoint2d-with-a-rigidbody-reference-to-an-empty-sprite))
    
*   Prefabs: Added localization to Overrides window and PrefabUtility dialogs.
    
*   Prefabs: Editor crashes with PrefabImporter::GenerateAssetData when importing "PBR Flower Pack" Asset ([1084315](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-with-prefabimporter-generateassetdata-when-importing-pbr-flower-pack-asset))
    
*   Prefabs: Newly create prefab variant's name contains entire path when the original prefab is not directly under the Assets folder ([1082940](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/newly-create-prefab-variants-name-contains-entire-path-when-the-original-prefab-is-not-directly-under-the-assets-folder))
    
*   Prefabs: Result is missing from OnWillCreateAsset() when the method is called by creating a Prefab ([1087603](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/result-is-missing-from-onwillcreateasset-when-the-method-is-called-by-creating-a-prefab))
    
*   Profiler: Fix increased memory usage by profiler for long lasting background operations. (1094748)
    
*   Profiler: Fixed coroutines naming in profiler. ([1033280](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-incorrect-processes-are-assigned-to-coroutines-in-coroutinesdelayedcalls-when-in-play-mode))
    
*   ps4: Clear htile buffer at allocation to avoid potential depth buffer corruption
    
*   ps4: Fixed compiling of PS4 when not using lumping
    
*   ps4: Fixed correct reporting of default new and delete allocations
    
*   ps4: Stopped script only builds for non-development configurations
    
*   Scripting: Add System.Data.dll in the references ([1075265](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-project-cant-be-compiled-because-library-targeting-net-standard-2-dot-0-doesnt-work))
    
*   Scripting: Disallow modifications of serialized data in m\_Component on GameObject ([1022204](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-crashes-when-exiting-the-play-mode-in-the-specific-project), [1082089](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gameobject-isactive-when-calling-prefabutility-dot-instantiateprefab))
    
*   Scripting: Fix crash when adding multiple components of a disallowed type ([959136](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trying-to-add-two-same-script-components-with-disallowmultiplecomponent-via-test-causes-unity-to-crash))
    
*   Scripting: Fix so we can stop yielded Coroutines deeper than 3 ([1089467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/coroutine-cant-be-stopped-via-stopcoroutine-if-it-has-3-or-more-nested-yield-return-coroutines))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed a bug where building players with "using alias" directives pointing to types in other assemblies if those types were not actually used would fail.
    
*   Scripting: Generate fullpath for response file references ([1068300](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/system-dot-net-dot-http-dot-dll-could-not-be-found-error-is-thrown-when-response-file-is-present-in-assets-folder))
    
*   Scripting: Improved handling and added error in cases where text serialised data is malformed, corrupted or in a unexpected state (1071531)
    
*   Scripting: Improved performance when calling GameObject.AddComponent for a nested MonoBehaviour class inside a namespace ([1085304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-dot-addcomponent-performance-severely-degrades-in-execution-time-with-each-call-when-the-call-is-inside-a-namespace))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fixed crash in ScriptUpdater.exe when code contains qualified references to methods of type that were statically imported (#using static). ([1081267](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apiupdater-crashes-when-script-has-qualified-access-to-statically-imported-types))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fixes APIUpdater crash when project path contains $ char ([1088028](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dollars-character-in-project-name-prevents-script-upgrading))
    
*   Shaders: Fixed edge/inside tesselation factors being improperly handled by metal shader compiler ([1065883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-edge-length-tessellation-throws-compilation-error-when-using-vertex-normal-on-the-vertex-function))
    
*   Shaders: Fixed surface shaders analysis step sometimes missing inputs when keepalpha is specified ([864173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-pass-surface-shader-does-not-include-vertex-color-data-in-the-second-pass))
    
*   Shaders: Zero-init appdata in domain surface shader to avoid compiler error about out parameter not being fully inited ([1065883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-edge-length-tessellation-throws-compilation-error-when-using-vertex-normal-on-the-vertex-function))
    
*   Terrain: "Remove Light Probe Ringing" setting now can be serialized and undone. ([1093751](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-remove-light-probe-ringing-not-serialized-and-tracked-by-undo-in-terrain-settings))
    
*   Terrain: Terrain auto-upgrade on load is now recognized as having been updated. ([1081612](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-layers-are-not-explicitly-linked-to-the-terrain-object-after-upgrade))
    
*   Timeline: Fix events send twice when just before the end of a clip ([1017658](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-sequence-doesnt-fire-animation-events-that-are-on-the-last-frames-when-several-clips-are-played), [1022016](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-animation-event-thats-close-to-the-last-frame-gets-called-twice-when-it-transitions-to-another-animation))
    
*   UI: Cache referencePixelsPerUnit when canvas parent is disabled ([1066689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-borders-of-an-image-change-when-disabling-and-re-enabling-a-canvas-after-changing-its-worldcamera))
    
*   UI: Fix bug where Dropdown doesn't close when clicking outside it under certain cicumstance ([1064466](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dropdown-doesnt-close-when-clicking-outside-it-under-certain-cicumstance))
    
*   UI: Fix raycasting problem on sprites when default sorting layer is the top most sorting layer ([1011483](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raycast-hits-a-sprite-in-the-back-but-not-the-sprite-in-the-front-when-default-sorting-layer-is-the-topmost-sorting-layer))
    
*   UI: Fixed case where inputfield cursor wouldn't be positionned properly ([1083649](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inputfields-image-doesnt-extend-to-fit-the-length-of-the-text-fields-value-when-editing-it-in-the-inspector))
    
*   UI: Fixed case where ui filtering in scene view did not function properly (1064210)
    
*   UI: Fixed issue where loading a scene with an orphaned ui component would cause a crash ([1085469](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-transform-getlocalposition-when-opening-a-specific-scene))
    
*   UI: Fixed issue where nested canvases with canvas scalers wouldn't work properly ([1033895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-removing-or-disabling-canvasscaler-corrupts-ui-which-cannot-be-undone))
    
*   UI: Fixed issue with nested canvases with canvas groups and custom alphas not working properly ([1084745](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/canvas-group-children-with-canvas-component-are-faded-when-changing-alpha-parameter-in-the-canvas-group))
    
*   UI: Fixed the bug where changing the Constraint Count for a Grid Layout Component would cause a Division by Zero Error. ([1075194](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dividebyzeroexception-division-by-zero-error-when-changing-the-constraint-count-for-a-grid-layout-1))
    
*   UI: PhysicsRaycaster and Physics2DRaycaster now support multiple-displays. ([1027701](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physicsraycaster-does-not-work-with-multiple-displays))
    
*   UI: UIElements: fix UXML factories not initialized when creating instantiating assets at Editor startup (1045535)
    
*   UI: UIElements: Fixed ListView.Refresh computing incorrect offset for first row when item source changes
    
*   UI: UIElements: Fixed PopupField text overflow
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed the VectorXXFields going on 2 lines when the window is made small. (1049285)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Addresses unhanded exception when issuing WebRequest with URI consisting of domain name and port ([1066792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-app-crashes-when-calling-unitywebrequest-dot-sendwebrequest-if-url-contains-domain-name-and-port))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fix InputField text selection so it works on Windows 10 touch-enabled devices ([1002834](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-input-fields-blinking-cursor-position-cant-be-change-on-devices-with-touch-input-enabled))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes an assert triggered when Xbox gamepads are disconnected in some situations (1080114)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes Animator changing GameObject's position when animation job is empty ([1095938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-il2cpp-empty-animation-state-offsets-components-in-a-master-build))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes build error in Editor when using Entities package for UWP ([1067528](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-building-an-application-on-uwp-fails-when-entities-package-is-installed))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes Stereo Display (non head-mounted) VR SDK being unavailable ([1033346](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-camera-dot-stereoenabled-returns-false-with-stereo-display-non-head-mounted-vr-sdk))
    
*   Video: Disregard unsupported stream on Windows ([1065499](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-error-is-thrown-when-playing-mov-file-which-was-made-on-iphone-ios-10))
    
*   Video: Fixed crash on specific avi video files on windows ([1088203](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-windowsvideomedia-copytorgba-when-importing-avi-file))
    
*   Video: Fixed crash on specific MPEG2 video files on windows ([1082071](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-playing-mpeg2-video-in-inspector))
    
*   Video: Fixed video with 6 audio channels crashes when switching between videos on iOS ([935497](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-videoplayer-video-with-6-audio-channels-crashes-when-switching-between-videos))
    
*   Video: Improved VideoPlayer network error handling on Windows ([1051461](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-videoplayer-dot-errorreceived-callback-is-not-triggered-when-internet-connection-is-lost))
    
*   Video: Resolved VideoPlayer player is paused when unplugging headphones ([1086705](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-videoplayer-dot-isplaying-keeps-returning-true-when-the-video-is-paused))
    
*   Video: VideoPlayer Camera Plane targets now visible in SRP ([1024877](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-player-doesnt-show-anything-on-hd-scriptable-render-pipeline))
    
*   WebGL: Fix Application.Quit() and memory cleanup ([1032870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-player-continues-to-run-after-webgl-content-is-removed-from-dom))
    
*   WebGL: Fix for camera viewport rect bug in WebGL with linear color space ([957652](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-linear-color-space-camera-viewport-rect-problem-in-built-game))
    
*   WebGL: Fixed Performnance Reporting integer overflow in WebAssembly development builds.
    
*   Windows: Fixed Application.isFocused returning true if the player has been minimized before the first scene loaded ([1080560](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-dot-isfocused-is-true-when-starting-the-build-application-and-while-in-unity-intro-screen-unfocusing-the-window))
    
*   Windows: Improves ExclusiveFullscreen resolution not being set if/when DXGI fails to apply requested resolution ([1058040](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-dot-setresolution-width-height-fullscreenmode-disregards-resolution-when-changing-to-exclusivefullscreen))
    
*   XR: Fix for VR tree shader using Alpha-to-Coverage when MSAA is disabled ([1074421](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/details-are-lost-too-early-for-terrain-trees-in-vr))
    
*   XR: Mac VR Billboarded trees are improperly lit if VR is enabled (1025108)