### Known Issues in 2019.1.0b1 under investigation

*   Asset Import: Error message - Asset import did not unload metadata path. This will leak memory (1106466)
    
*   Editor: "Opening Project in Non-Matching Editor" pop up is missing in HUB while opening 2018.3.x project in 2019.1.a12 (1108963)
    
*   Graphics: Editor throws "GetGfxDevice() should only be called from main thread" errors and eventually crashes when in Play Mode ([1110007](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-throws-getgfxdevice-should-only-be-called-from-main-thread-errors-and-eventually-crashes-when-in-play-mode), 1119496)
    
*   Package Manager: Packages fail to compile and show Package Manager because of missing .NET Core prerequisites ([1110751](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packages-compilation-failures-on-new-project-because-of-missing-net-core-prerequisites))
    
*   Particles: Particle Systems cause "task.rasterData.indexBuffer == NULL" error and lead to graphical glitches ([1099125](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vr-particle-systems-cause-task-dot-rasterdata-dot-indexbuffer-equals-equals-null-error-and-lead-to-graphical-glitches), 1115989)
    
*   Prefabs: Editing prefabs directly in the project browser is no longer possible ([1120805](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editing-prefabs-directly-in-the-project-browser-is-no-longer-possible))
    
*   Scripting: Editor crashes when ScriptableObject filename does not match class name when reloading the ScriptableObject (1118266)
    
*   Shaders: ShaderGraph - Slider Node doesn't refresh when values are changed (1106475)
    
*   Video: Video Clip renders only in single Game Window when multiple Game Windows are open (1109551)
    
*   WebGL: Sounds do not play in WebGL Builds when launched in Safari 12 ([1089060](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sounds-do-not-play-in-webgl-builds-when-launched-in-safari-12), 1119092)
    

### Known Issues - won't be fixed in 2019.1

*   XR: Linear color space has driver issues on Gear VR with S7 Adreno based phones running Android 7.0.

### New 2019.1.0b1 Entries since 2019.1.0a14

#### Improvements

*   Android: The Unity video player can now be used with the Vulkan renderer.
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Defer creation of command buffers and render encoders until actually needed
    
*   XR: Updated Vuforia to version 8.0.10.
    

#### API Changes

*   Editor: Added AssemblyBuilder.referencesOptions to allow building assemblies using UnityEngine module .dlls instead of the default monolithic UnityEngine.dll.
    
*   Editor: Added GameObjectUtility.GetMonoBehavioursWithMissingScriptCount and GameObjectUtility.RemoveMonoBehavioursWithMissingScript to be able to remove MonoBehaviours with a missing script from a game object.
    
*   Editor: Added new API to detect & control async shader compilation better in the Editor.
    

#### Fixes

*   2D: Fix "Sprite Editor" text is clipped from Sprite Editor window's tab when it is not docked (1114471)
    
*   2D: Fix clicking trim multiple times will reduce Sprite Rect size (1114472)
    
*   2D: Fix exception when trimming Sprite alpha on a texture that is downsized ([1104094](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/indexoutofrangeexception-error-is-thrown-when-trimming-a-sprite-that-has-a-greater-resolution-than-its-import-settings), 1113929)
    
*   2D: Fix for missing Tiles being created when dragging a spritesheet with empty initial columns or rows into Tile Palette ([1103034](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-tiles-when-dragging-sprite-sheet-into-tile-palette), 1115694)
    
*   2D: Fix Sprite Editor Window module breakage when window is maximized and restore (1114930)
    
*   2D: Fix Sprite Frame Inspector window overlaps the header and options when the window is shrunk diagonally (1114470)
    
*   2D: Fix Tilemap.SwapTiles when swapping Tiles to other Tiles that already exist on the Tilemap ([1108368](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-tilemap-tilemap-dot-swaptile-swapping-tiles-to-empty), 1115695)
    
*   2D: Prevent current Active Tilemap selection from being unselected when a new GameObject is instantiated on the scene ([1102618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemap-grid-object-gets-deselected-and-prevents-further-painting-when-painting-with-a-custom-prefab-brush), 1115696)
    
*   Android: Fix "Gradle prewarm failed" hiding the actual reason of failure (1115478)
    
*   Android: Fix GPU skinning on Mali GPUs when using OpenGL ES (1103330)
    
*   Android: Fix HDR rendering when using Vulkan on older Mali drivers (1105065)
    
*   Android: Make Android handle an Application.targetFrameRate value of -1 as 30 fps again.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fix crash when loading compressed meshes out of asset bundles.
    
*   Editor: Fix editor crash while saving a scene with missing script. (1115552)
    
*   Editor: Fix IME input causing text duplication in the editor (1117878)
    
*   Editor: Fix Missing script disappears from Inspector until selection is changed. (1115930)
    
*   Editor: Fix scene view camera moving at a constant speed instead of accelerating. ([1117685](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sceneview-moving-the-camera-with-arrow-keys-or-wasd-in-fly-mode-does-not-accelerate-based-on-the-duration-of-the-input-anymore), 1117686)
    
*   Editor: Fixed being able to drag a shortcut entry on a modifier key on the virtual keyboard in the Shortcut Manager (1110790)
    
*   Editor: Fixed cyan color appearing on thumbnails, previews etc (1115282)
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with "Fail to read .asmdef" error being emitted on startup (1111571)
    
*   Editor: Fixed MenuItems not being called when pressing the corresponding key combination if the key combination contains the Space key ([1106151](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/menuitem-functions-with-assigned-shortcuts-involving-the-space-key-are-not-called-when-the-corresponding-shortcut-is-pressed))
    
*   Editor: Fixed missing stylesheet error when closing modal windows (1115057)
    
*   Editor: Fixed right clicking a shortcut entry in the Shortcut Manager window not selecting the entry (1110804)
    
*   Editor: Fixed selected shortcut entry in the Shortcut Manager not being reset when changing categories (1104559)
    
*   Editor: Rename UI Transparency Priority to Renderer Priority in the MeshRenderer component
    
*   Editor: Vulkan: Fixed crash when switching graphics APIs (1111769)
    
*   GI: Fixed hashing issue when writing out AO textures for PLM.
    
*   GI: Renamed "Auto Bake On/Off" to "Auto Generate Lighting On/Off" in the app bar.
    
*   Graphics: Fix for instability at DX12 graphics tests. (1078231)
    
*   Graphics: Vulkan: Disabled error messages when attempting to draw with missing bindings
    
*   IL2CPP: Add protocol support for IPv6 on Windows. ([1099133](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-il2cpp-a-socketexception-protocol-option-not-supported-is-thrown-when-trying-to-connect-to-an-ipv6-network))
    
*   IL2CPP: Add support for marshaling fields which are arrays of structs which in turn have arrays as fields. ([1106047](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/marshal-dot-sizeof-throws-an-exception-in-il2cpp-builds-when-the-object-contains-an-array-of-objects-with-arrays))
    
*   IL2CPP: Correct an intermittent crash in the native linker on Android. (1108960)
    
*   IL2CPP: Emit proper C++ code when type names include characters that are not valid for C++ source code. ([1108435](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-building-project-fails-when-using-custom-dlls))
    
*   IL2CPP: Fix a crash when using the Environment.MachineName property on some machines when targeting UWP and make it return results consistent with the Standalone Player. ([1093953](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/system-dot-environment-dot-machinename-crashes-on-il2cpp-on-long-machine-names-with-uwp-builds))
    
*   IL2CPP: Fixed InvalidCastException that can sometimes happen when passing managed object that derives from a native Windows Runtime class to native code. For instance, this happens when deriving from Windows.UI.Xaml.Control.ContentDialog and trying to show it. ([1104540](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-contentdialog-throws-an-exception-on-il2cpp-backend))
    
*   IL2CPP: Prevent a compilation error in generated C++ code when the ldtoken opcode is used in some cases. ([1108435](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-building-project-fails-when-using-custom-dlls))
    
*   IL2CPP: Prevent an compilation error in generated C++ code when an enum field is marshaled. ([1104889](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-throws-multiple-errors-when-trying-to-build-project-with-il2cpp))
    
*   Linux: Fix SetResolution was not able to resize a maximized window ([1099286](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setresolution-fullscreen-parameter-does-not-work-on-linux), 1115927)
    
*   Linux: Fixed GPU skinning on Vulkan when running on Linux (1117706)
    
*   OSX: Fixed occasional crash when using Camera ([1101944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-unity-remote-5-getting-assertion-failed-on-expression-uploaddstformat-equals-equals-format-errors-on-ios-device), 1110670)
    
*   Package Manager: An error could occur during package resolution if the global npm cache was corrupted. (1114662)
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed the link to the changelog of Analytics package not showing up in Package Manager UI ([1085232](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/analytics-3-dot-1-1-there-is-no-link-to-the-changelog-in-the-package-manager-window))
    
*   Particles: Fix JobTempAlloc memory leaks in the Particle System Trails Module on WebGL. ([1114502](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-particle-system-trails-module-causes-error-internal-jobtempalloc-has-allocations-that-are-more-than-4-frames-old))
    
*   Particles: Particle trails could be culled incorrectly when using the World Space trails option. ([1089679](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-trails-are-culled-while-still-within-camera-bounds))
    
*   Particles: Update particle bounce light immediately when the multiplier is changed on the Light. ([1102543](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lights-particle-bounce-gi-changes-dont-update-until-the-scene-is-restarted))
    
*   Physics: Fix crash due to auto-sync-transforms during Rigidbody2D.Cast query when changing transform prior to query being executed. ([1099642](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physicsquery2d-collidercastall-crash-when-calling-rigidbody2d-dot-cast))
    
*   Physics: Fix crash due to multi-scene physics when destroying an object during a 2D collision/trigger callback. ([1110897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-physicscontacts2d-removecontact-when-destroying-a-gameobject-in-the-play-mode))
    
*   Prefabs: Fix crash if prefab instance object is referencing a corresponding source object in the prefab asset of a different type. ([1109081](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-the-file-memorystream-is-corrupted-fatal-error-when-opening-a-scene-with-a-specific-prefab-in-it))
    
*   Prefabs: Fix crash when creating a Prefab Asset in Awake when entering Play Mode (1115007)
    
*   Prefabs: Fix that a MonoBehaviour cannot be dragged to the Inspector after ParticleSystem on a Prefab Instance ([1107231](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/monobehaviour-cannot-be-added-to-prefab-instance-or-prefab-asset-if-it-contains-particle-system-component), 1117045)
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed crash when applying changes from Prefab Instance to asset, when assets contains disconnected nested prefabs. ([1104595](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-setupprefabinstancesandfileidsforsavefromexistingprefabinstanceobjects-when-applying-changes-to-prefab))
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed crash when undo'ing after applying a disconnected prefab ([1109513](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-attempting-to-undo-an-apply-action-to-an-upgraded-disconnected-prefab), 1115286)
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed crash when using Undo wrongly on Prefab asset objects. ([1099646](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/object-getinstanceid-crash-when-undoing-prefab-creation-with-undo-dot-registercreateobjectundo))
    
*   Scripting: Editor freezes when importing/reimporting script that contains unicode characters. ([1111740](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-editor-freezes-when-importing-slash-reimporting-script-that-contains-unicode-characters), 1116255)
    
*   Scripting: Fix compiler error reporting in Editor.log (1115012)
    
*   Scripting: Fix invalid UTF8 characters from imported assets. ([1086920](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copyright-symbol-c-causes-invalid-utf8-string-error-when-observing-scripts-inspector-window), 1114945)
    
*   UI: Fix 4 split layout only showing perspective in scene views. (1114618)
    
*   UI Elements: Fix ScrollView with vertical-horizontal scrolling (1115974)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed : Setting a TextField's "Password" attribute via C# doesn't work. (1115308)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed : Setting a TextField's "Password" attribute via UXML doesn't work. (1115309)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed the foldout visual triangle that changed to checkmark. (1118229)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed the multiline TextField not supporting Tab character ([984808](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uielements-multi-lines-textfield-does-not-support-tab-character), 1115525)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed the shortcutmanager where long names are not displayed correctly in the profile selector. ([1099039](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/long-names-are-not-displayed-properly), 1118262)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fix build & run on D3D and XAML build types ([1109738](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-player-is-not-deployed-correctly-through-build-and-run-and-causes-buildfailedexception-deployment-failed))
    
*   Video: Fixed iOS/OSX playback not starting with AudioSource enabled (1116398)
    
*   VR: XR Trace now logs at Errors, Asserts, Warnings, Log Messages, Exceptions and Debug level. (1115643)
    
*   Windows: Improved error messages after failing to load native plugins on Windows Standalone and UWP if one of their dependencies is missing (1083178)
    
*   XR: Oculus Quest controllers should now work with native input. (1118024)
    

### Preview of Final 2019.1.0b1 Release Notes

#### Features

*   Android: Added Android notch support
    
*   Android: Added AndroidDevice.SetSustainedPerformanceMode API to enable/disable sustained performance mode in runtime
    
*   Android: Added OpenGL ES 3.2 support
    
*   Android: Added Package Patching functionality, where only script related changes are sent to device instead of repackaging apk file.
    
*   Android: Added support for ASTC HDR texture formats
    
*   Editor: Add an option to Select All/Unselect All gizmos in the gizmos visibility popup
    
*   Editor: Added CSHARP\_7\_3\_OR\_NEWER preprocessor directive when compiling C# 7.3 on .NET 4.x scripting runtime.
    
*   Editor: Added new EditorTools API, allowing users to create new tools that behave like native tools. A new button has been added to the toolbar to display custom tools. Additionally, a new display in the SceneView now shows the available CustomEditor tools for the selection.
    
*   Editor: Added new SceneView Camera Settings window to control the FOV and Speed of the camera. Mouse scrollwheel adjusts the Speed in Fly/FPS mode too. Also implemented SceneView Camera easing while moving & zooming and added a new section in Preferences to adjust this.
    
*   Editor: Added support for referencing Assembly Definition Files with GUIDs instead of assembly names. Enable with "Use GUIDs" option in Assembly Definition File inspector. Enabled by default for new Assembly Definition Files.
    
*   Editor: Console : added text based filtering for the console entry list
    
*   Editor: Console : callstack now clickable. Hyperlinks will take you to the source code line for any function calls listed in the stack
    
*   Editor: Exposed AdvancedDropdown API for searchable AddComponent-like dropdowns
    
*   Editor: Log message to Editor.log when .csproj's get rewritten to disk, makes it easier to figure out why .csproj's are getting reloaded in C# IDE's. Messages are prefixed with "\[C# Project\]".
    
*   Editor: Made editor on-demand shader compilation asynchronous, not blocking the editor while compiling the shader on the first time usage. The rendering will happen using a replacement shader until the actual shader variant is available. The feature can be enabled/disabled in the editor preferences with "Asynchronous Shader Compilation" checkbox.
    
*   Editor: new keyboard Shortcut Manager configuration interface.
    
*   Editor: Pre-checkout and pre-submit user-specified callbacks for VCS integration. Allows users to create callbacks that can modify asset lists and changeset selection/description at checkout and submit time. Pre-checkout callback can: Add and remove assets from the list of those that will be checked out; Create a new changeset to check the specified asset list in; Nominate an existing changeset to check the specified asset list in and Block checkout by returning false from the callback. Pre-submit callback can: Add and remove assets from the list of those that will be submitted; Create a new changeset to submit specified asset list in; Nominate an existing changeset to submit the specified asset list in; Rename an existing changeset then submit it and Block submission by returning false from the callback.
    
*   Editor: Script recompiles triggered by internal Unity systems are now logged to the Editor.log with \[ScriptCompilation\] prefix in messages
    
*   GI: Add option to limit number of generated lightmaps for a group of game objects.
    
*   GI: Added multiple importance sampling of environments to the progressive CPU lightmapper
    
*   GI: Adding support for the Optix AI Denoiser. The Optix AI denoiser is a deep learning based denoiser trained on library of path traced images. It yields a substantial improvement over existing filter options, especially on low sample counts and it is resilient to leaking. It is currently only available on Windows and with compatible NVidia GPU.
    
*   GI: GPU Lightmapper: Support for double sided GI flag on the materials.
    
*   GI: GPU Lightmapper: Support for shadow casting and receiving on meshes.
    
*   Graphics: Add experimental support of any GPU formats for RenderTexture
    
*   Graphics: Add interface to pass camera buffers from SRP to VFX Graph (so that screen space behaviours can be used (depth collision...))
    
*   Graphics: Added API support for setting entire constant buffer contents at once: \[\[Material.SetConstantBuffer\]\] and \[\[Shader.SetGlobalConstantBuffer\]\]
    
*   Graphics: Added support for the Dynamic Resolution feature for Metal on macOS
    
*   Graphics: FrameDebugger now supports SRP batcher
    
*   Graphics: Initial sparse texture support for Vulkan
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Added internal support for lossless texture compression API, a new feature on iOS 12 with A12+ GPU hardware
    
*   Graphics: Native rendering plugin support for Vulkan
    
*   iOS: Added support for rendering Unity on top of native UI on iOS and tvOS
    
*   Mobile: Wide Color Gamut support for Vulkan and OpenGLES
    
*   Package Manager: Add Package manifest inspector
    
*   Particles: Experimental support for using the C# Job System to manipulate particle data
    
*   Physics: Add a seperate gravity setting for cloth simulation.
    
*   Physics: Added methods to determine closest point to a Collider2D. Added Physics2D.ClosestPoint, Rigidbody2D.ClosestPoint & Collider2D.ClosestPoint.
    
*   Profiler: UnityEditor.Experimental.Networking.PlayerConnection.EditorGUILayout.AttachToPlayerDropdown added to public API to offer a one-stop solution to display and change the player the editor is attached to.
    
*   Scripting: Enabled incremental Garbage Collector on Universal Windows Platform
    
*   Scripting: Experimental support for incremental Garbage Collection to avoid GC Spikes
    
*   Shaders: Added new user variant directives shader\_feature\_local and multi\_compile\_local that do not contribute towards the global keyword count
    
*   Shaders: Added support for BLENDWEIGHTS and BLENDINDICES semantics in vertex shaders
    
*   Timeline: Added API support for track-level animation
    
*   Timeline: Added Signals and Markers to Timeline
    
*   Timeline: Timeline has moved to be a built-in Package.
    
*   UI Elements: Background image can now be tinted using styles and uss
    
*   UI Elements: Progress Bar control added
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Added support for building ARM64 applications
    
*   Video: Video H.265 transcode support
    
*   WebGL: Add WebAssembly streaming instantiation support
    
*   WebGL: Added experimental multi-threading support.
    

#### Backwards Compatibility Breaking Changes

*   Android: If SRP is active, blit mode is forced to "Never blit" on Android.
    
*   Android: Remove internal build system
    
*   Android: Updated bluetooth headset detection on Android 6+ to avoid using deprecated method
    
*   Asset Import: GenerateBackFaces is now enabled by default in the Sketchup Importer.
    
*   Asset Import: Removed normal calculation options in Sketchup importer inspector.
    
*   Asset Pipeline: The Model importer mesh read/write setting is now disabled by default.
    
*   Editor: Merged Shortcut Profile dropdown and the Shortcut Profile options cog into a single dropdown
    
*   Editor: Shortcut Profiles cannot start or end with space and disallowed some special characters. (1103117)
    
*   GI: Moved tetrahedralization code to the player
    
*   GI: Reduce frequency with which LightmapSettings warnings are issued
    
*   GI: Stitching and probe deringing are now turned on by default
    
*   Graphics: Added override for LightmapEmissionFlagsProperty, allowing display of emission GI options without checking for an emissision color property (\_EmissionColor)
    
*   Graphics: ASTC 'fast' and 'best' compressor quality options are now actually different from 'normal'
    
*   Graphics: CommandBuffer.IssuePluginCustomBlit now passes the depth UnityRenderBuffer to the native plugin if 'dest' is a depth texture
    
*   Graphics: Disallow rentry into SRP rendering (i.e disallow recursive rendering).
    
*   Graphics: Dynamic batching checkbox is now hidden if a Scriptable Render Pipeline is active.
    
*   Graphics: Removed graphics emulation from Editor
    
*   Graphics: Texture Mipmap streaming in editor Edit Mode now defaults to being enabled, when texture streaming is enabled in quality settings
    
*   Graphics: Updated graphics packages (LWRP, HDRP, and Shader Graph) to 5.2.3 and tweaked Scenes inside accordingly.
    
*   Graphics: \[Metal\] Debug groups are now visible in Release builds
    
*   iOS: UnityWebRequest will use new backend based on NSURLSession. Old NSURLConnection backend is still available (commented out in trampoline).
    
*   iOS: Updated Game View resolution options with iPhone XR/XS/XS Max
    
*   Linux: Deprecate Linux x86 and Universal targets. These will be removed in future Unity versions.
    
*   Multiplayer: The multiplayer high level API has been moved from an extension DLL to a package. Projects which should be automatically updated with a reference to the package when they open for the first time with 2019.1.
    
*   Physics: Increase default max angular velocity to 50 radian per second, as default value was way too low
    
*   Scripting: Added support for serialisation for struct UnityEngine.Rendering.SphericalHarmonicsL2 (922290)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Removed .NET scripting backend
    
*   WebGL: Removed asm.js PreBuilt Engine option
    
*   WebGL: Removed MemorySize and LinkerTarget options from Editor
    
*   WebGL: rename gameInstance to unityInstance
    
*   WebGL: Set default compression to Brotli
    
*   WebGL: Update Emscripten to version 1.38.11
    
*   Windows: Disabled cursor locking and confinement in batch mode;
    
*   Windows: Logfile name has changed to be more consistent with other platforms: Player.log and Player-prev.log. Path has not changed.
    

#### Improvements

*   Android: Add keystores dedicated location option
    
*   Android: Added 'Symlink Sources' in Build Settings window, this enabled Java and Kotlin files to be directly referenced from Unity project in the exported gradle project.
    
*   Android: Adjust the number of worker threads dynamically according to the number of online cores.
    
*   Android: After building the apk, the Proguard mapping file is placed at the same location
    
*   Android: Check Vulkan device compatibility on Build & Run
    
*   Android: Disable various Adreno Vulkan driver workarounds for latest drivers
    
*   Android: Enumerate all Android audio input device options, including the lowest-latency option, which can be selected via the name "Android voice recognition input".
    
*   Android: Improved il2cpp player startup by ~200ms for second and later launches
    
*   Android: Native Systrace profiling support is implemented
    
*   Android: The Unity video player can now be used with the Vulkan renderer.
    
*   Android: Use OpenSL instead of AudioTrack on more devices. This reduces audio input and output latency.
    
*   Animation: Added Experimental methods to AnimationPlay.
    
*   Animation: Added property Avatar.humanDescription.
    
*   Animation: Aligned all Animator StateMachine nodes on the grid
    
*   Animation: Improved performance for AvatarBuilder
    
*   Animation: Improved support for animationjobs with TransformStreamHandle bound to transform added dynamicaly at runtime.
    
*   Animation: Upgraded the animation window preview/playback engine to use the Playable API.
    
*   Asset Import: Added Support for cameras in Sketchup Importer.
    
*   Asset Import: Extended Optimize Mesh option on Model asset import settings to allow optimization of Vertex Order and Polygon Order to be controlled independently rather than both being controlled from the same flag
    
*   Asset Import: Improved performance of DXT1/BC1 and DXT5/BC3 texture compression. Note that although compression quality is not affected subtly different compressed results will likely be produced
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Scriptable objects that are loaded before a refresh/import, will after a refresh/import be reloaded, if the underlying asset had been modified before the refresh/import. This means that after the refresh/import scriptables objects will have the modified values from modified assets. Before this change, the scriptable object would get "null" value (when using operator==) after the refresh/import.
    
*   Compute: \* Allows more of the scripting CommandBuffers utility functions to be used with command buffers executed on async compute, such as getting temporary render targets.
    
    *   Adds the concept of execution flags to CommandBuffers describing how they are intended to be executed and allowing for better error handling as those command buffers are built in script. This allows for generating exceptions when adding commands not valid for async compute.
    *   Added in editor detection for potential GPU deadlock case where a user creates a GPU fence in one command buffer but then never executes that command buffer.
*   Editor: Added Clear on Build option in Console
    
*   Editor: Added confirmation prompt when deleting a Shortcut Profile through the Shortcut Manager
    
*   Editor: Added field of view axis selection dropdown in camera inspector
    
*   Editor: Adds a keyboard shortcut for the submit button on the changeset submission window and for some commonly used VCS operations (1069130)
    
*   Editor: Columns in the Shortcut Manager shortcuts list are now resizable
    
*   Editor: Improve performance when interacting with Model Inspector with some large meshes
    
*   Editor: Improved performance of the model importer inspector material remapping section.
    
*   Editor: Improved the performance of the UIElements renderer
    
*   Editor: Metal: Add texture type validation to built-in Metal API validation feature
    
*   Editor: Reworked Android keystore and key creation UI
    
*   GI: Added support for shadow mask for rectangular area lights in the progressive lightmappers (will be available via HDRP).
    
*   GI: Added support for user defined range for area lights.
    
*   GI: Enable GPU lightmapper (preview) on macOS and Linux
    
*   GI: GPU lightmapper: Dump memory report to Editor.log when falling back to CPU lightmapper.
    
*   GI: Lightprobe Gizmos are now affected by postprocessing
    
*   GI: Optimize baking of low occupancy lightmaps when using GPU lightmapper.
    
*   Graphics: Add support for Dynamic Resolution Scaling to the Lightweight Render Pipeline
    
*   Graphics: Added filtering for sorting layers to the ScriptableRenderContext
    
*   Graphics: Allow import and skinning of models with up to 32 bone weights for each vertex.
    
*   Graphics: Changing the motion vectors behavior: 1 - Nodes with Camera Motion only are not skipped anymore when the exclude motion vector flag is on 2 - Only submeshes with an explicit motion vector pass are skipped when exclude motion vector flag is on
    
*   Graphics: Creation of textures during async load on PC DX11 and Mac Metal moved off render thread into a job, to minimise hitches during load
    
*   Graphics: Frame debugger now displays shader properties for compute shader dispatches
    
*   Graphics: Graphics.Blit and CommandBuffer.Blit methods now support blitting to and from texture arrays.
    
*   Graphics: GraphicsFences are now available on Vulkan, Metal, D3D11, OpenGL and OpenGL ES rendering backends.
    
*   Graphics: Metal/iOS: Fix Dynamic Resolution render surfaces to use heap allocation with aliasing to improve performance and memory usage
    
*   Graphics: Metal/macOS: Move immutable buffers and most textures from using managed storage into private memory storage, improving performance and CPU side memory utilization
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Defer creation of command buffers and render encoders until actually needed
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Second iteration on Metal heap allocation management to make it more fine-grained
    
*   Graphics: Not evaluating the light rectangles for oblique projection matrices
    
*   Graphics: Perform mesh creation for terrain details (e.g. grass) on parallel threads
    
*   Graphics: Removed stall on render thread when loading large textures
    
*   Graphics: Revamp of the DrawProcedural script API:
    
    *   DrawProceduralNow replaces the existing API, because it submits draw calls immediately. The new DrawProcedural API submits calls to color, shadows, reflections etc. This now matches the DrawMesh/DrawMeshNow API.
    *   Added overloads of DrawProcedural that take an Index Buffer
*   Graphics: Shader selection dropdown in Material asset editor got replaced with a searchable dropdown
    
*   Graphics: Texture Mipmap streaming now supported in editor Edit Mode when enabled in editor settings.
    
*   Graphics: Update ASTC texture compressor with faster multi-core compression
    
*   IL2CPP: The performance of code generated by il2cpp has been improved by up to 20%
    
*   iOS: Add Access WiFi Capability to the Xcode API (availabe from iOS 12/Xcode 10)
    
*   iOS: Added launch screen image fields for iPhone XS and XS Max
    
*   iOS: Refactored iOS device generation parsing
    
*   Mobile: Added support for RGBM and native HDR lightmaps
    
*   OSX: Make Vsync handling in Mac standalone players more stable
    
*   Package Manager: Log project load time in _Editor.log_
    
*   Package Manager: Release of Package Manager UI v2.1.0-preview-1
    
    *   Support maximize/minimize
    *   Support PackageManager UI saved maximized in a layout
    *   Keep track of selected built-in package
    *   Keep track of last selected filter
    *   Fix UI Layout
*   Package Manager: Removed reference to "package" or "package manager" in the extension manager logs to avoid confusion with the new Package Manager system.
    
*   Package Manager: Show dependent packages in Project Browser and corresponding assemblies in Object Picker.
    
*   Package Manager: Use the _enablePackageManagerTraces_ command argument to also increase the logging level of the upm process.
    
*   Particles: Add a new mode to the Texture Sheet Animation Module, allowing animations to be specific to each mesh being used
    
*   Particles: Expose particle mesh indices to script, allowing users to get/set which mesh each particle is using
    
*   Particles: Expose particle mesh indices to shaders, allowing users to know which mesh each particle is using
    
*   Physics: Added overload of Rigidbody2D.MoveRotation that accepts a Quaternion.
    
*   Physics: Ensure that the Inspector "Info" rollout on the Rigidbody2D and Collider2D components persist their expanded state when entering/exiting play-mode or moving between components.
    
*   Playables: Made IPlayableBehaviour.OnBehaviourPause be invoked when the Playable is paused AND when the PlayableGraph is paused, instead of OR. (1077846)
    
*   Plugins: Preloading is now supported for any native plugin. Added PluginImporter.isPreloaded.
    
*   Plugins: When double clicking on a plugin in Unity project, an associated IDE will open up.
    
*   Profiler: Added "Semaphore.WaitForSignal" profiler marker.
    
*   Profiler: Added Mono.JIT and Mono.DomainUnload profiler markers
    
*   Profiler: Added profiler markers for static constructors.
    
*   Profiler: Enabled automatic scripting threads profiling for il2cpp
    
*   Profiler: Increased minimum memory usage for profiler to 4MB in Players and 64MB in the Editor.
    
*   Profiler: Will now show time to wait for the next frame consistently accross all player platforms regardless of how vsync is implemented.
    
*   ps4: Add support for sensitivity for touchpad pointer emulation (PS4Input.touchpadMouseSensitivity )
    
*   Scripting: Added support for Visual Studio 2019 code editor.
    
*   Shaders: Improve shader debugging by disabling the optimiser when generating debug shaders i.e. #pragma enable\_d3d11\_debug\_symbols.
    
*   Shaders: Moved 38 builtin keywords to local keywords. Shaders inspector now shows used global/local keywords by shader.
    
*   Terrain: Added a direction bias to the Terrain smoothing brush, to control blur to either go up or down
    
*   Terrain: Added hotkeys to adjust Terrain tool brush size and opacity.
    
*   Terrain: Allows shadowCastingMode to be set on terrain.
    
*   Timeline: Added Volume, Pan and Spatial Blend controls to Audio Tracks, and volume controls to Audio Track Clips
    
*   Timeline: Performance improvements in Timeline Editor Window display
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Added ExecutableOnly build type, which allows building without creating Visual Studio project, enabling quicker iteration using Build & Run. See documentation for UnityEditor.WSAUWPBuildType for more information
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Added support for building player with Visual Studio 2019.
    
*   Web: Added support to write to file in append mode in DownloadHandlerFile
    
*   Web: UnityWebRequest: report Content-Length to DownloadHandlerScript as 64-bit (32-bit method is now deprecated). ([1092447](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scripting-downloadhandler-dot-receivecontentlength-2gb-integer-overflow))
    
*   WebGL: Add Quit() function support to the unity instance
    
*   WebGL: Added multithreading compatibility check
    
*   WebGL: Added UnityLoader.instantiateAsync() which returns a JS Promise
    
*   XR: Linear color space now works on Oculus Go and Quest. For Gear VR, driver issues may prevent linear from working with S7 Adreno phones on Android 7.0.
    
*   XR: The wireframe shader now works with the single-pass instancing stereo rendering mode.
    
*   XR: Update Oculus minimum supported version to 1.28.0
    
*   XR: XR LWRP Improvements:
    
    1.  Single-pass double wide rendering has been implemented as a stereo rendering method fallback for android devices that do not support single-pass instancing or multi-view.
    2.  Stereo multi-pass rendering is no longer selectable from the player settings when an SRP is in use.
    3.  Single-Pass stereo rendering will automatically be selected if multi-pass was previously selected before using an SRP.
    4.  Android y-flip issues should be resolved.
    5.  Shadows render correctly on all android platforms when using multi-view stereo rendering.
    6.  The VR watermark will no longer be rendered on an HMD.
    7.  OpenGL invalid state errors could no longer be present in adb logs.

#### API Changes

*   2D: Added a new property TextureGenerationSettings.secondarySpriteTextures, which lets you assign secondary textures to the Sprite texture asset that is being generated.
    
*   2D: Added a new property TextureImporter.secondarySpriteTextures, which lets you assgin secondary textures to a texture asset imported as Sprite.
    
*   2D: Added a new struct UnityEngine.SecondarySpriteTexture, which encapsulates a Texture2D and its shader property name to give Sprite-based renderers access to a secondary texture, in addition to the main Sprite texture.
    
*   Android: Added Android API 28 (Pie)
    
*   Android: Added AndroidJNI methods which use sbyte parameters or return sbyte values (1069247)
    
*   Android: Deprecated AndroidJNI methods which use byte parameters or return byte values (1069247)
    
*   Android: Removed public API for setting the JVM Max heap size
    
*   Animation: Add AnimationStream.GetInputWeight(int index)
    
*   Animation: Add Animator.BindCustomStreamProperty(string propertyName, PropertyType type) to UnityEngine.Experimental.Animations
    
*   Animation: Can't write into a scene handle anymore (experimental API)
    
*   Animation: Obsolete delay features in Playable (Playable.Set/GetDelay)
    
*   Asset Import: Added AssetImporter.SupportsRemappedAssetType to inform the user user if the importer supports remapping certain asset types (for example Materials)
    
*   Asset Import: Added MaterialEditorExtensions.PerformBumpMapCheck - Iterates over all material properties with the Normal flag and checks that the textures referenced by these properties are imported as normal maps.
    
*   Editor: Added API for managing shortcuts in the editor (UnityEditor.ShortcutManagement)
    
*   Editor: Added AssemblyBuilder.referencesOptions to allow building assemblies using UnityEngine module .dlls instead of the default monolithic UnityEngine.dll.
    
*   Editor: Added CompilationPipeline.compilationStarted and CompilationPipeline.compilationFinished events for when compilation starts and finishes in the editor.
    
*   Editor: Added CompilationPipeline.GetAssemblyDefinitionFilePathFromAssemblyReference, CompilationPipeline.GetAssemblyDefinitionReferenceType, CompilationPipeline.GUIDToAssemblyDefinitionReferenceGUID, CompilationPipeline.AssemblyDefinitionReferenceGUIDToGUID APIs for dealing with Assembly Definition File references that can be either a GUID or assembly name.
    
*   Editor: Added EditorApplication.EnterPlayMode() and EditorApplication.ExitPlayMode()
    
*   Editor: Added EditorUtility.GetDirtyCount() which returns how many times SetDirty is invoked upon the specified asset. Reset to zero when saved.
    
*   Editor: Added EditorUtility.IsDirty() which returns if any SetDirty is invoked upon the specified asset.
    
*   Editor: Added GameObjectUtility.GetMonoBehavioursWithMissingScriptCount and GameObjectUtility.RemoveMonoBehavioursWithMissingScript to be able to remove MonoBehaviours with a missing script from a game object.
    
*   Editor: Added Handles.TransformHandle()
    
*   Editor: Added new API to detect & control async shader compilation better in the Editor.
    
*   Editor: Block illegal commands for Editor and PlayMode tests when in playmode (1093572)
    
*   Editor: Exposed method to check if a profile ID is valid
    
*   Editor: Fix input field for sliders that has width less than 150 with no label ([1078003](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/impossible-to-enter-sliders-value-in-the-input-field-when-imgui-slider-is-of-a-width-of-less-than-150))
    
*   Graphics: Added Camera.HorizontalToVerticalFieldOfView(float horizontalFieldOfView, float aspectRatio) and Camera.VerticalToHorizontalFieldOfView(float verticalFieldOfView, float aspectRatio) methods.
    
*   Graphics: Added Graphics and CommandBuffer method overloads to allow blitting to and from a texture array in the corresponding blit methods.
    
*   Graphics: Added Material.ComputeCRC() function which returns a CRC hash value of the material asset content.
    
*   Graphics: Added Shader.GetDependency() function used for querying one of the shader dependency shaders by name.
    
*   Graphics: Added SortingLayerRange to FilterRenderSettings to allow for the filtering of sorting layers by ScriptableRenderContext
    
*   Graphics: Added Texture2D.normalTexture property which returns a small neutral normal texture.
    
*   Graphics: Added Texture2DArray property "allSlices". The "allSlices" property can be used instead of "-1" to indicate that all texture array slices should be bound for methods that support texture arrays.
    
*   Graphics: Added UnityEngine.Rendering.GraphicsFence class to replace GPUFence
    
*   Graphics: Exposed settting for number of jobs used when using occlusion culling.
    
*   Graphics: UnityEngine.Rendering.GPUFence class has been deprecated and replaced with UnityEngine.Rendering.GraphicsFence
    
*   GraphView: Added Renamable capability to GraphElement
    
*   GraphView: canAcceptDrop callback added to BlackBoardSection
    
*   GraphView: GraphView.GetElementByGuid() now returns first element with the given GUID, within all of GraphView, not just elements contained in layers.
    
*   GraphView: OnResized callback added to MiniMap
    
*   GraphView: Resizer manipulator has new constructor w/ OnResized callback parameter
    
*   Kernel: TypeTrees are now have a central cache.
    
*   Memory Profiler: Added Dispose functionality for the PackedMemorySnapshot class in order to prevent instances from keeping a lock longer than necessary on the snapshot file.
    
*   Memory Profiler: Added UnityEditor.Profiling.Memory.Experimental.PackedMemorySnapshot.Convert to handle conversion from MemoryProfiler.PackedMemorysnapshot object to UnityEditor.Profiling.Memory.Experimental.PackedMemorySnapshot file.
    
*   Multiplayer: Added NetworkTransport.SetMulticastLock API to acquire/release multicast locks. On android this is required to be able to receive broadcast packets. ([988573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onreceivedbroadcast-not-called-on-android-slash-ios-devices-when-acting-as-a-client))
    
*   Package Manager: Expose the type property of PackageInfo
    
*   Physics: Added "Rigidbody2D.SetRotation(angle)" to allow the body z-axis rotation to be set in degrees.
    
*   Physics: Added "Rigidbody2D.SetRotation(quaternion)" allow the body rotation to be set by Quaternion.
    
*   Physics: Added Collider2D method overloads to provide List<> support for Raycast(), Cast(), GetContacts() and OverlapCollider().
    
*   Physics: Added Collision.GetContact(List) and Collision2D.GetContact(List) methods.
    
*   Physics: Added CompositeCollider2D method overloads to provide List<> support for GetPath().
    
*   Physics: Added Physics2D method overloads to provide List<> support for LineCast(), RayCast(), BoxCast(), CapsuleCast(), CircleCast(), OverlapPoint, OverlapArea(), OverlapBox(), OverlapCapsule(), OverlapCircle(), OverlapCollider() and GetContacts().
    
*   Physics: Added PhysicsScene2D method overloads to provide List<> support for LineCast(), RayCast(), BoxCast(), CapsuleCast(), CircleCast(), OverlapPoint, OverlapArea(), OverlapBox(), OverlapCapsule(), OverlapCircle() and OverlapCollider().
    
*   Physics: Added PolygonCollider2D method overloads to provide List<> support for GetPath() and SetPath().
    
*   Physics: Added Rigidbody2D method overloads to provide List<> support for Cast(), GetContacts(), OverlapCollider() and GetAttachedColliders().
    
*   Physics: Exposed additional query types in the PhysicsScene class. Note that only the non-allocating ones are available.
    
*   Physics: Exposed Physics.GetIgnoreCollision()
    
*   Playables: Added FrameData.effectivePlayState to pass the accumulated playstate of the Playable (1077846)
    
*   Playables: Added PlayableOutput.GetEditorName, an editor only method to get the PlayableOutput name.
    
*   Profiler: Added Profiler.EmitFrameMetaData API which allows to save arbitrary data to the profiler stream and read it in the Editor
    
*   Profiler: Exposed UnityEditor.Profiling.HierarchyFrameDataView API that allows to access CPU profiler data in a hierarchical way
    
*   Profiler: Extended HierarchyFrameDataView profiling api with ResolveItemCallstack (returns a sample callstack in the Editor) and GetItemMergedSamplesColumnDataAsFloats (returns sample values for a merged sample).
    
*   Profiler: The Editor GUI used to connect to a player (from Profiler or Console Window) is now exposed. It's placed under UnityEditor.Experimental.Networking.PlayerConnection where EditorGUIUtility.GetAttachToPlayerState(EditorWindow parentWindow) will get the connection state with which it can be drawn using EditorGUILayout/EditorGUI.AttachToPlayerDropdown.
    
*   Scripting: Added GarbageCollector.isIncremental, GarbageCollector.incrementalTimeSliceNanoseconds, GarbageCollector.CollectIncremental
    
*   Shaders: Added functions to ShaderUtil class to retrieve and clear errors/warnings from Shader compilation and added ShaderMessage class to provide error/warning details
    
*   Shaders: Obsoleted the \[ShaderIncludePath\] attribute. All shader header files must be under the Assets folder or in a package. To include shader headers directly from a package, use #include "Packages//
    
*   Terrain: Added hotkey Terrain tool selection API, lets you bind custom Terrain tools to hotkeys
    
*   Terrain: Added New version of TerrainTools ShowBrushGUI() callback with flags, to choose which controls to display
    
*   Terrain: Improved Terrain Stamp tool to have better controls, and to behave better across terrains of different height.
    
*   Terrain: Obsoleted the TerrainTools IOnPaint.RepaintAllInspectors() function, replaced with Repaint(RepaintFlags), which is available in all TerrainTool callback interfaces.
    
*   Timeline: Exposed methods to create and manipulate track-level animation curves.
    
*   Timeline: Exposed methods to work with infinite clips on animation tracks
    
*   Timeline: Make TrackAsset.CreatePlayable(PlayableGraph, GameObject, TimelineClip) virtual to match behaviour from 2018.1 ([1096350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/method-trackasset-dot-createplayable-cannot-be-overridden))
    
*   XR: Add a command to set single-pass stereo mode with command buffer. (1096603)
    

#### Fixes

*   2D: A Sprite that is no longer packed into a Sprite Atlas remains invisible. (1083304)
    
*   2D: Added missing docs for TextureImportSettings.SpriteMeshType (1080294)
    
*   2D: After updating from 2017.4 to 2018.x serialized sprite atlas attributes values are different than in the Inspector ([1085023](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-updating-from-2017-dot-4-to-2018-dot-x-serialized-sprite-atlas-attributes-values-are-different-than-in-the-inspector))
    
*   2D: Allow user to reset the Sorting Layer and Sorting Order settings of Renderer components from the Inspector Settings cog button. (1096375)
    
*   2D: Crash on SpriteAtlas::Add when passing array of nulls to SpriteAtlas.Add ([1089125](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-spriteatlas-add-when-passing-array-of-nulls-to-spriteatlas-dot-add))
    
*   2D: Editor crashes in GameObjectHierarchyProperty::CountRemaining when undoing the creation of Sprite Mask object ([1074128](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-in-gameobjecthierarchyproperty-countremaining-when-undoing-the-creation-of-sprite-mask-object))
    
*   2D: Editor crashes on clicking Pack Preview when same atlas is added in Packables in debug view (1107235)
    
*   2D: Editor crashes with SpriteShapeUtility::SpriteShapeUtils\_SpriteShapeFillSpriteInfo when opening specific project ([1084948](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-spriteshapeutility-spriteshapeutils-spriteshapefillspriteinfo-when-opening-specific-project))
    
*   2D: Error message shown when SVG is added to SpriteShapeProfile, crashes when Spriteshape is added to Scene ([1068117](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-spriteshape-error-message-shown-when-svg-is-added-to-spriteshapeprofile-crashes-when-spriteshape-is-added-to-scene))
    
*   2D: Sprite with SpriteShapeBody Shader gets graphical artifacts when rotating the camera ([1079942](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-with-spriteshapebody-shader-gets-graphical-artifacts-when-rotating-the-camera))
    
*   2D: Sprites reference both the original Sprite assets and Sprite Atlas resulting in increased memory usage ([1071494](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-reference-both-the-original-sprite-assets-and-sprite-atlas-resulting-in-increased-memory-usage))
    
*   2D: Sprites rendered through Command Buffers not displayed until rendered once with a default Renderer ([1097465](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-rendered-through-command-buffers-not-displayed-until-rendered-once-with-a-default-renderer))
    
*   2D: SpriteShapeRenderer passes invalid \_texelSize.zw ([1099636](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spriteshaperenderer-passes-invalid-texelsize-dot-zw))
    
*   2D: The side of a sprite is chopped off when it's Max Size property is changed ([1101500](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-side-of-a-sprite-is-chopped-off-when-its-max-size-property-is-changed))
    
*   2D: When click and drag on an unselected Sprite in Sprite Editor Window will show a normal cursor to indicate draging of Sprite instead of 'resize' cursor for resizing border Old behaviour https://drive.google.com/open?id=1cOVhoE3-sXfV7o1ScJQYJDAzEFa9R8t7 New Behaviour https://drive.google.com/open?id=1qWljJXFSrCebz07\_aa\_4gE0m0azVQbPf ([1077700](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trying-to-move-the-green-outline-on-a-sprite-in-the-sprite-editor-moves-the-entire-rect-when-clicking-on-an-unselected-sprite))
    
*   Android: Android: refactored and improved android device detection and selection during builds (1102133)
    
*   Android: Detect when editor did not manage to install app to device ([1086410](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-editor-doesnt-show-that-pushing-built-apps-to-android-4-dot-1-is-failing))
    
*   Android: Don't perform deadzoning in the native backend for game controller axes in the new input system.
    
*   Android: Enabled EGL sRGB backbuffer in Android 9.0
    
*   Android: Fix Application.Unload sometimes crashing on android ([1093574](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-application-dot-unload-causes-a-crash-after-multiple-openings-within-native-android-app))
    
*   Android: Fix black screen when resuming app which was being recorded with google play (FMOD deadlock) ([1046752](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-google-play-video-recording-freezes-the-application-when-unlocking-the-device))
    
*   Android: Fix black screen when trying to use linear rendering with 16bit backbuffer
    
*   Android: Fix CrashReportint module not stripped on il2cpp when not used
    
*   Android: Fix dynamic resolution on some older Mali GPUs on Vulkan ([1065227](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-dynamic-resolution-doesnt-work-on-samsung-galaxy-s6-edge-plus))
    
*   Android: Fix for application freeze when displaying Android ProgressBar ([1053736](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-application-freezes-when-progressbar-appears-on-the-screen))
    
*   Android: Fix for Bluetooth headset related crash when application doesn't use sounds ([1086597](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-android-crash-on-audiomanager-shutdownreinitializeandreload-with-bluetooth-headset-pairing))
    
*   Android: Fix for keyboard not opening on Android 9 ([1102448](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-keyboard-doesnt-open-when-an-inputfield-is-touched-with-android-api-level-28))
    
*   Android: Fix for the non-consistent FixedUpdate calls ([1071756](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-fixedupdate-scheduling-is-unpredicatable))
    
*   Android: Fix gradle builds failing when using quotes and backslashes in keystore passwords and aliases ([996504](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gradle-build-fails-if-keystore-slash-key-password-contains-a-single-slash-double-quote), [1071288](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gradle-build-system-does-not-escape-backslash-character-on-keystore-alias-password))
    
*   Android: Fix HDR rendering when using Vulkan on older Mali drivers (1105065)
    
*   Android: Fix OnReceivedBroadcast not called on Android devices when acting as a client ([988573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onreceivedbroadcast-not-called-on-android-slash-ios-devices-when-acting-as-a-client))
    
*   Android: Fix OpenGL ES 3.0 shader compile error when generated code requires bitfieldInsert
    
*   Android: Fix possible missing draws when using Vulkan on Adreno (1094348)
    
*   Android: Fix terrain rendering when using Vulkan on Adreno (1102440)
    
*   Android: Fix Vulkan shader compile error when using SV\_RenderTargetArrayIndex in vertex shader output (1098973)
    
*   Android: Fixed Activity has leaked ServiceConnection errors when calling Application.Unload ([1091255](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/activity-has-leaked-serviceconnection-errors-when-calling-application-dot-unload))
    
*   Android: Fixed Display.systemHeight and Display.systemWidth ([1090830](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-display-dot-systemheight-and-systemwidth-return-rendering-values-instead-of-screen-native-values))
    
*   Android: Fixed problem with exceptions when exporting Android Gradle project ([1089510](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gradle-export-throws-trying-to-add-unity-classes-dot-jar-slash-androidmanifest-dot-xml-to-the-list-of-output-files))
    
*   Android: il2cpp library will not be relinked when building to Android, if there are no changes to script files, cached library will be used instead, this should slightly improve build pipeline performance. (1089122)
    
*   Android: Impvoe performance of cubemap convolution on Mali GPUs ([989820](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vr-android-very-poor-performance-on-galaxy-s8))
    
*   Android: Keyboard.onTextInput, Keyboard.onIMECompositionChange will be correctly called for physical and virtual keyboard events.
    
*   Android: Mounting additional apk files to support dynamic features is implemented (1078212)
    
*   Android: Mouse delta will be correctly calculated in the new input system.
    
*   Android: Print linker errors to console when using il2cpp
    
*   Animation: Added auto-cleanup of AnimationClip's tracked references on domain reload to avoid a hard to reproduce crash (1046821)
    
*   Animation: Double clicking an AnimationClip will open the AnimationWindow. ([1058422](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/double-clicking-animation-clip-does-not-open-animation-editor-window))
    
*   Animation: Fix crash when animator changes the bindings of the next animator in the same frame ([1099988](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-unityengine-animation-setgenericfloatpropertyvalues-when-switching-timeline-with-constrains))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where AnimationClip.empty always returns true in Standalone builds when Animation Type is set to Legacy ([1061700](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-animation-type-is-set-to-legacy-animation-clip-could-not-be-loaded-from-assetbundle-in-build))
    
*   Animation: Fixed Animation Window selection of nested Animation component hierarchies children of Animator component hierarchies. ([1089015](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-window-shows-parent-animations-for-child-elements-when-parent-has-animator-component-and-children-do-not))
    
*   Animation: Fixed animator glitch just after instantiation ([995978](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-first-frame-of-animator-isnt-updated-by-playablegraph-after-being-instantiated))
    
*   Animation: Fixed crash if there's a cycle in an animation graph ([792020](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playables-crash-on-cyclic-graphs))
    
*   Animation: Fixed crash when opening animator window on bad animator controller setup ([1080436](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-if-using-a-specific-animator-controller-on-play-mode-when-opening-animator-window))
    
*   Animation: Fixed crash when selecting a faulty bone after AutoMap in avatar configurator. (1075651)
    
*   Animation: Fixed \[burstcompile\] for animation jobs not working anymore
    
*   Asset Import: Changed the icon of the assets generated using ScriptedImporters to match the icon of other model files.
    
*   Asset Import: Clamp the global scale in ModelImporter to at most 10 digits. (1082327)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed issue with diffuse color not being properly assigned when a HDRP/Lit material is generated from a FBX standard material in HDRP projects. ([1087977](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-material-imported-with-model-doesnt-preserve-original-base-color-and-set-texture), 1114076)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed issue with ModelImporter where imported materials have no textures assigned in HDRP projects.
    
*   Asset Import: Prevent using your previously created avatar in the AvatarCopy field in the ModelImporter Rig panel.
    
*   Asset Import: ProjectBrowser Icons will refresh correctly when the Model Importer gets applied.
    
*   Asset Import: The ModelImporter "Use File Scale" property was not showingg the multiple different values checkbox in multiple selection.
    
*   Audio: AudioSource.GetSpatializerFloat and AudioSource.SetSpatializerFloat can now be called successfully before an AudioSource is played.
    
*   Audio: Edit key option displays incorrect parameters in the curve editor (713681)
    
*   Audio: Fix adding new keys to the curve in audio source inspector via context menu ([1085732](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/failure-to-add-a-keyframe-to-a-curve-when-right-clicking-on-a-curve-and-choosing-add-key-in-the-audio-source-3d-sound-settings))
    
*   Audio: Fixed audio importing of very short audio files which previously caused importer errors. (882227)
    
*   Audio: Fixed AudioCustomFilter which was leaking mutexes. (1101492)
    
*   Audio: Fixed loud clicking sound during automatic preview when multiple audio clips are selected in the Project window. ([1049785](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/loud-clicking-sound-starts-playing-when-selecting-more-than-one-audio-clip-in-project-window))
    
*   Audio: Fixed regression where time spent in profiler collecting audio data depended on the number of audio clips that had audio data loaded. ([1086988](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-dot-collectaudiostats-time-ms-is-very-high-when-preload-audio-data-is-enabled-on-many-audio-files))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Don't treat failed builds as "successful"
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed an issue where PlayerSettings.applicationIdentifier would not return the identifier for the active build target when editing settings for a different build target. ([1041443](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playersettings-dot-applicationidentifier-reports-incorrect-value))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed an issue where scenes with a period in the name could not be loaded by asset bundles ([1022819](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cant-load-a-scene-from-asset-bundle-if-scene-has-a-period-in-the-name))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed an issue where the Scripting Define Symbols line in Player Settings could not be reverted with the Undo command. ([1083481](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scripting-define-symbols-line-does-not-change-when-using-undo-command))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed AssetBundleBuild.addressableNames not triggering an asset bundle rebuild when the property changed ([996380](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-addressablenames-doesnt-trigger-bundle-rebuild))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Unload asset bundles before building a player or other asset bundles. This prevents building objects loaded out of asset bundles into a second build which could cause unexpected behavior. ([1081760](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-cachedwriter-write-when-building-project-with-missing-project-id))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Will remove duplicate mono folder in Mac Standalone builds, removing around 500 kb of unneeded data from builds
    
*   Collab: Fixed after renaming a file in Visual Studio and restarting Unity Editor the file was not marked as changed in the Collab Toolbar. ([1051583](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-renaming-a-file-in-visual-studio-it-is-not-marked-as-changed-in-unity-editor))
    
*   DX12: Fix crash when scene is using dpeth only + HDR Camera (1087306)
    
*   DX12: Fixed a crash with memory allocation issues when using a camera with the depth or don't clear flags ([969582](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dx12-crash-with-memory-allocation-issues-when-using-a-camera-with-the-depth-or-dont-clear-flags))
    
*   DX12: Fixed where test runner crashes while running test containing RenderTexture instantiation from command prompt (1015725)
    
*   Editor: Add missing size and style to CacheFontForText (1087730)
    
*   Editor: Added a mechanism for displaying an error message when any of the recent projects contain an invalid or missing ProjectSettings.txt file. ([1002683](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/merge-conflict-in-projectversion-dot-txt-causes-unable-to-parse-file-error-on-any-project-opened))
    
*   Editor: All desktop platforms, editor and player, now have consistent logfile option handling. For most platforms this should mean no change, just improved handling of edge cases and scenarios with logfile parameter. ([900754](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/command-line-logfile-with-no-parameters-outputs-to-screen-on-os-x-but-not-on-windows), [960012](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-opening-and-building-project-in-the-appdata-slash-locallow-folder-appear-two-new-folders-with-and-and-dot-escaped-characters), 1068907)
    
*   Editor: Android release builds don't forward network traffic to device anymore ([1090170](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-slash-linux-unable-to-forward-network-traffic-to-device))
    
*   Editor: Changed the way fallback fonts are selected to improve availability of Unicode glyphs ([1090134](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-symbol-characters-not-shown-slash-entered-in-text-fields))
    
*   Editor: Clear compile errors from the console when switching platform. (1078935)
    
*   Editor: Context Menu's "Open" menu does not perform any actions on folders fix (1079852)
    
*   Editor: Corrected a typo in 2D/3D scene view toggle popup ([1048139](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-slash-3d-toggle-button-in-scene-view-has-toggled-mispelled-as-togggled))
    
*   Editor: CSharpNamespaceParser fixes: Whitespace around # in conditional ([1077417](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-in-csharpnameparser))
    
*   Editor: Diagnostic warning icon drawn under text (1093938)
    
*   Editor: Domain reloads will no longer cause prefab override components (addition, removals) to vanish in the inspector window (1102487)
    
*   Editor: Editor systematically crashes when opening client project View on Crashes (1076793)
    
*   Editor: ENABLE\_VSTU when VisualStudio support has been initialized. ([1099395](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enable-vstu-is-not-defined-when-vstu-is-enabled))
    
*   Editor: Ensure assembly definitions cannot be named as any predefined assembly names. ([1081704](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/typeloadexception-is-thrown-when-highlighting-a-script-and-reflectiontypeloadexception-is-thrown-when-entering-play-mode))
    
*   Editor: Errors are thrown when a prefab with more that 50 game components is selected in the Hierarchy window ([1085685](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-a-prefab-with-more-that-50-game-components-is-selected-in-the-hierarchy-window))
    
*   Editor: Fix -nographics parameter does not include command line activation operations ([1043511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/using-nographics-causes-a-command-line-license-activation-to-fail))
    
*   Editor: Fix bug where floating windows couldn't be resized on Ubuntu 18.04 ([942780](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-undocked-panels-cant-be-resized-in-some-desktop-environments))
    
*   Editor: Fix composite fields where the inner component is to big to fit in. (1074392)
    
*   Editor: Fix crash if null texture in GUIStyle.scaledbackground ([1074485](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-guistyle-drawbackground-when-opening-custom-imgui-window))
    
*   Editor: Fix crash when calling DestroyImmediate on components in component context menu callback while having multiple game objects selected ([1056115](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-scripting-scriptingwrapperfor-when-destroying-component-with-gameobject-dot-destroyimmediate-after-re-adding-it))
    
*   Editor: Fix crash when launching Editor on Mac with -batchmode as first argument ([1059028](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-unity-crashes-with-segmentation-fault-11-or-bus-error-10-when-launching-with-batchmode-followed-by-projectpath))
    
*   Editor: Fix crash when using keyboard shortcuts with Mac Editor while Unity project is loading ([1004336](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-holding-cmd-plus-while-creating-slash-opening-project-opens-preferences-window-before-editor-is-opened))
    
*   Editor: Fix define expression parsing in namespace parser ([1085267](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/complex-number-if-preprocessor-directives-stop-evaluating-when-a-false-value-occurs-in-an-or-statement))
    
*   Editor: Fix duplication slightly changing Transform values due to floating point precision errors. ([912111](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/duplicated-child-gameobject-inside-canvas-has-modified-recttransform-scale-and-position-values))
    
*   Editor: Fix empty strings causing textfield crash (1107172)
    
*   Editor: Fix for empty Editor Settings password fields still returning asterisks for empty fields. ([958884](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vcs-password-field-still-shows-up-as-not-empty-after-deleting-password))
    
*   Editor: Fix game view dimensions ([1083316](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/box-colliders-position-has-a-slight-offset-when-using-a-raycast-to-hit-it))
    
*   Editor: Fix Game view layout not changing when paused (1104417)
    
*   Editor: Fix game view mouse offset (1097051)
    
*   Editor: Fix Gizmos.DrawFrustum not rendering near clip plane in gizmo space. (1081967)
    
*   Editor: Fix gui label tooltips (1057359)
    
*   Editor: Fix IME input causing text duplication in the editor (1117878)
    
*   Editor: Fix incorrect insertion of game objects in the hierarchy in particular workflow ([1069565](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-object-is-not-inserted-correctly-in-hierarchy-window-when-placed-after-child-object))
    
*   Editor: Fix issue with Editor recommending update to an earlier version
    
*   Editor: Fix issue with MonoBehaviours in assemblies (.dlls) not loading correctly in scenes from AssetBundles when loading the assembly through reflection with Assembly.Load or similar. (1082571)
    
*   Editor: Fix issue with overriden Main Menu shortcuts
    
*   Editor: Fix issue with RuntimeInitializeOnLoadMethodAttribute not working in players builds inside player-only code blocks (e.g. #if !UNITY\_EDITOR) and inside player-only .asmdef assemblies ([922692](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/conditional-compilation-problem-with-runtimeinitializeonloadmethod), 1071599)
    
*   Editor: Fix JPEG logo assets for UWP builds not added to Visual Studio project ([1066142](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-exported-project-does-not-have-visual-assets-set-correctly-in-package-manifest))
    
*   Editor: Fix ListView.SelectionChanged throwing ArgumentOutOfRangeExcpetion (1084218)
    
*   Editor: fix minmaxslider dragelement position, set it absolute (used to be relative, which broke layout) (1090242)
    
*   Editor: Fix remove binding and reset entry not saving changes in the Shortcut Profile file
    
*   Editor: Fix response file references not recognized in VS ([1066726](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/httpclient-namespace-is-not-recognized-in-vs-with-net-4-dot-x))
    
*   Editor: Fix Scene icon not updated when changing the png file (1084630)
    
*   Editor: Fix SceneView freezing after certain interactions under an OpenGL device ([1100000](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-glcore-only-the-scene-window-fails-to-refresh-after-a-few-interactions))
    
*   Editor: Fix state propagation when a VisualElement is added to a hierarchy. (1093728)
    
*   Editor: Fix to enable only seleected menu items (cut/copy/paste/delete/select all) when modal windows are shown - OSX (1092367)
    
*   Editor: Fix Undo/Redo MenuItems changing label after rebinding shortcut
    
*   Editor: Fix unhideable material's render queue for scriptable render pipelines using shadergraph. (1108637)
    
*   Editor: Fix Unity crash when save assets dialog is displayed for exiting the editor. ([1062146](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-saving-animation-clip-with-verify-saving-assets-setting-checked))
    
*   Editor: Fix window layout restoration (1078964)
    
*   Editor: Fixed "Open by File Extension" not working properly on Linux and MacOS ([1090145](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-open-by-file-extension-doesnt-work))
    
*   Editor: Fixed a bug where Linux Editor inspector didn't activate items with space bar input ([1061975](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-the-inspector-does-not-take-space-bar-input))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where Add Component menu is not displayed in some cases. (1104169)
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where continuously opening and closing Utility windows could crash the Editor on OSX ([1046287](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-on-clicking-animation-curve-created-using-uielement-for-mac-osx))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where creating an Editable Font Copy was throwing console errors on Windows platform. ([1064686](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/could-not-write-font-material-error-is-thrown-when-trying-to-create-editable-copy-of-font))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where Editor could crash when closing the Editor while Asset store or services tab is loading. ([1024048](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/closing-unity-while-a$-or-services-tab-is-loading-crashes-editor))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where Grouped Layers are categorized separately. ([1068422](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/creating-layer-groups-with-the-slash-symbol-creates-multiple-groups-with-the-same-name-containing-only-a-single-layer))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where Handles.RotationHandle would not clip correctly when Handles.matrix was not identity. (1095582)
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where preview icon for the material preset flickers (1099296)
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where Project window scroll bar blinks when the assets from the last row are selected. ([1076266](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-window-scrollbar-disappears-after-selecting-assets-from-the-bottom-row))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where red text could appear in the Project search bar along with "style not found" console warnings, while searching in play mode. ([1086419](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/red-text-in-project-search-bar-when-searchingwhile-in-play-mode))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where TearDown and UnityTearDown are skipped for tests that fail due to errors logged with UnityEngine.Log.Error. ([1077871](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/testrunner-tests-are-not-torn-down-properly-when-they-fail-due-to-logging-an-error))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where usage of Obsolete APIs could spam the console window with infinite null reference exceptions. ([1085675](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-causes-infinite-nullreferenceexception-errors-even-after-deletion))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue which caused unpredictable behavior with duplicate terrain inspectors. Now user is notified of duplicate inspector. (1080942)
    
*   Editor: Fixed Assert.Ignore() tests do not exit Play Mode ([1071127](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playmode-tests-do-not-exit-play-mode-in-2018-dot-2-versions-of-unity))
    
*   Editor: Fixed being able to drag a shortcut entry on a modifier key on the virtual keyboard in the Shortcut Manager (1110790)
    
*   Editor: Fixed color picker dialog. The color box was showing incorrect gradients as well as the alpha channel slider ([1079791](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/color-picker-palette-has-graphical-artifacts-when-color-space-is-set-to-linear))
    
*   Editor: Fixed color picker ignores the color hex code when copied with ([804231](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/color-picker-ignores-the-color-hex-code-when-copied-with))
    
*   Editor: Fixed crash coming from homewindow callback function ([1090455](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wild-crash-editor-crashes-on-homewindowhandler-learntabopenedcallback-while-opening-project-or-entering-play-mode))
    
*   Editor: Fixed crash when calling RenderTexture.ReleaseTemporary twice for same texture ([1091561](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-renderbuffermanager-textures-garbagecollect-when-calling-rendertexture-dot-releasetemporary-twice))
    
*   Editor: Fixed crash when creating new brushes without assets ([1086739](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-at-eventmanager-invokeeventcommon-or-freezes-after-creating-a-new-brush))
    
*   Editor: Fixed decimal values using comma instead of dot when OS locale has been changed to non-english language. ([1089361](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-editor-uses-os-locale-settings-i-dot-e-commas-instead-of-dots-in-float-values-with-net-4-dot-6))
    
*   Editor: Fixed invalid blending of texture with the background color. (1073506)
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue in the handling of UnitySetup if an exception is thrown or logged. ([1085288](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/exception-in-setup-doesnt-cause-tests-to-fail))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue LoadSceneAsync would not trigger subscribed callbacks on load ([1049526](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-loading-editorapplication-dot-loadlevelasyncinplaymode-the-subscribed-completed-event-doesnt-triggers))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue where assets from Unity's built in resources could not be loaded by AssetDatabase.LoadAllAssetsAtPath ([1104874](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/using-loadallassetsatpath-to-load-the-paths-does-not-load-objects-stored-at-paths-and-leaves-the-the-expecting-object-empty))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue where drag'n'dropping a texture onto a gameObject in the scene creates a material with no texture in HDRP projects.
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue where signed 8bit ints were checked against the bounds of unsigned 8bit ints during text serialization, this resulted in unnecessary warnings. ([1101155](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/1-is-reported-as-out-of-range-when-converting-to-an-sbyte-field))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with editor crash when reordering game objects in a particular workflow (1097118)
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with filtering of .spm tree models ([1082272](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-spm-tree-models-are-not-being-filtered-by-search-by-model-option))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with labels disappearing when ASCII character set is selected ([1068658](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/imgui-labels-that-use-fixed-character-set-disappear-when-transformed-with-gui-matrix))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with Undo not being enabled in a particular workflow ([1068662](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-unable-to-use-undo-if-editor-layout-is-set-to-default))
    
*   Editor: Fixed Memory leaks while selecting audio source in inspector (1086532)
    
*   Editor: Fixed MenuItems not being called when pressing the corresponding key combination if the key combination contains the Space key ([1106151](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/menuitem-functions-with-assigned-shortcuts-involving-the-space-key-are-not-called-when-the-corresponding-shortcut-is-pressed))
    
*   Editor: Fixed missing stylesheet error when closing modal windows (1115057)
    
*   Editor: Fixed null reference exception while modifying pre-muscle settings of an Avatar. ([1068870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/null-reference-exception-on-tweaking-the-pre-muscle-settings-of-a-avatar-when-scene-view-is-in-focus))
    
*   Editor: Fixed OS locale being used for Editor Windows. ([930798](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-editor-uses-os-locale-settings-i-dot-e-commas-instead-of-dots-in-float-inspector-fields-with-experimental-net-4-dot-6))
    
*   Editor: Fixed performance issues related to the test runner for projects with many assemblies.
    
*   Editor: Fixed potential crash when deleting Assembly Definition Files (.asmdefs) in packages. ([1101390](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-on-scripting-array-length-when-recompiling-after-deleting-asmdef-files-from-custom-package))
    
*   Editor: Fixed right clicking a shortcut entry in the Shortcut Manager window not selecting the entry (1110804)
    
*   Editor: Fixed selected shortcut entry in the Shortcut Manager not being reset when changing categories (1104559)
    
*   Editor: Fixed serialization issue for MonoBehaviour's with no script causing a crash in save scene ([925313](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-output-l-when-saving-the-scene))
    
*   Editor: Fixed the bug where renaming an asset via Context Menu-->Rename after searching for it in Project Browser's One-Column Layout would not work ([1073306](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renaming-asset-while-searching-in-the-project-view-does-not-work-in-one-column-layout))
    
*   Editor: Fixed the issue with project update from 2017.4 to 2019.1 (1099240)
    
*   Editor: Fixed the issue with scale handle disappearing when the resolution of the monitor is changed ([1077720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-scale-handle-disappears-in-game-view-after-increasing-the-scale-factor-from-display-settings-of-the-monitor))
    
*   Editor: Fixed the sprite sheet grid artifact when clicking drop-down menus in texture inspector. ([1055868](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-sheet-grid-artifact-appears-when-clicking-drop-down-menus))
    
*   Editor: Fixed Unwrapping.GenerateSecondaryUVSet not working with meshes having 32bit indices ([1096058](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-in-calculatesurfacearea-when-using-auto-generated-uvs))
    
*   Editor: Generate for mcs.rsp reference (1053714)
    
*   Editor: GenericMenu.allowDuplicateNames now works for subMenus ([1074892](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enabled-genericmenu-dot-allowduplicatenames-doesnt-allow-duplicates-in-submenus))
    
*   Editor: Horizontal and Vertical Layout Group "Child controls size" property has been renamed to "Control Child size" for more clarity. ([1090329](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/horizontal-layout-group-and-vertical-layout-group-child-controls-size-fields-are-mislabelled))
    
*   Editor: Horizontal scrollbar added for Preset Manager (Settings) ([1087969](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assigned-presets-are-not-visible-in-preset-manager-when-settings-window-is-shrinks-horizontally))
    
*   Editor: Improve performance when deserializing uint64 values from text serialized assets
    
*   Editor: Linux: Using the "Verify Save Assets" option should now properly work in the Linux Editor ([957853](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-files-are-not-saved-if-verify-saving-assets-is-enabled))
    
*   Editor: Make VisualElementAsset id field deterministic (1100451)
    
*   Editor: Null protection when iterating using ExtendVisibleAsChild ([1083254](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-extendvisibleaschild-when-onsceneguidelegate-references-a-method-which-calls-handleutility-dot-pickgameobject))
    
*   Editor: Only show "Strip Engine Code" checkbox in Player Settings for platforms which actually support stripping.
    
*   Editor: ParticleSystemForceField component has no icon ([1084799](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-particlesystemforcefield-component-has-no-icon))
    
*   Editor: Remove cursor warning when calling Cursor.SetCursor on a texture loaded from an asset bundle ([1028350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cursor-dot-setcursor-prints-invalid-texture-used-warning-when-the-texture-is-loaded-with-assetbundles))
    
*   Editor: Remove duplicate for Rider path discovery on Linux
    
*   Editor: Removed additional separator in GameObject hierarchy menu (1080882)
    
*   Editor: Rename UI Transparency Priority to Renderer Priority in the MeshRenderer component
    
*   Editor: Restrict the insertion of menu items into a given submenu to a prescribed limit of 1000 items and displays a warning about the same. ([1039181](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-failed-failed-to-insert-item-error-is-thrown-when-scripts-count-exceed-the-limit-of-1167-scripts))
    
*   Editor: Set the width of Property handler object visible area to its default maximum ([1068811](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serializedproperty-children-not-visible-when-put-in-horizontal-group))
    
*   Editor: Shortcuts defined in the Main Menu / OS Menu now have the prefix "Main Menu/"
    
*   Editor: Test Runner console message overlapping the test menu fix (1094277)
    
*   Editor: Unity Test Runner will not execute PrebuildSetup code for ignored playmode tests or tests that are disabled on the selected platform
    
*   Editor: Update the progress bar window on Linux to use a consistent size (1100653)
    
*   Editor: VSCode open multiple windows when using Open C# Project menu ([1065936](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-visual-studio-code-windows-are-opened-when-opening-c-number-project-or-script))
    
*   Editor: When moving mouse over ListView scrollbar on Windows the cursor changed to a resize cursor (1084972)
    
*   Editor: \[OSX\] Fixed an issue where pressing CMD + Z when changing the project name causes a fatal error. ([1092471](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-fatal-error-occurs-in-the-launcher-when-cmd-plus-z-is-used-when-changing-the-project-name))
    
*   GI: Dinamically load OpenCL.dll installed by the graphics drivers to the system, this ensure safe discovery of the OpenCL devices on various system and configuration. (1085235)
    
*   GI: Editor log outputs ''d3d11: failed to lock buffer \[HASH\].'' while baking using CPU PLM ([1095976](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-log-outputs-d3d11-failed-to-lock-buffer-0000021b7f5b94e0-of-size-85222-0x8007000e-dot-while-baking-using-cpu-plm))
    
*   GI: File reading errors with hashID.ghd while baking lighting ([1047087](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/plm-failed-reading-errors-with-hashid-dot-ghd-while-baking))
    
*   GI: Fix an issue for LightingDataAssets in Auto-mode were hashing didn't capture a change of scenes. ([1094637](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/environment-lighting-is-not-applied-when-loading-a-duplicated-scene-via-scenemanager-dot-loadscene))
    
*   GI: Fix for performance issue where UpdateMaterials are run too often.
    
*   GI: Fix for when the lightmap preview window doesn't get cleared when lightmaps are removed. (1082621)
    
*   GI: Fixed a bug where a probeset with completely overlapping positions would cause the deringing settings array to become shifted.
    
*   GI: Fixed a case where the CPU progressive lightmapper could never finish a bake when LODs were baked (specifically when they would rasterize far outside of the UVs themselves). ([1066196](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightmap-baking-is-stuck-on-baking-dot-dot-dot-stage-when-baking-the-cave-demo))
    
*   GI: Fixed an issue where moving a camera in scene view would cause objects to flicker when realtime GI and GPU instancing were enabled. ([1053521](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/any-camera-movement-causes-object-flickering-when-gpu-instancing-and-realtime-global-illumination-are-enabled))
    
*   GI: Fixed an issue where the bake could spit out "Assertion failed on expression: 'm\_NumInstanceTransforms == m\_NumInstanceLODGroups'" and produce incorrect results for scenes with LODs in them. It could occur when entering avatar configuration when baking or making sweeping changes to instances contained in the scene. (1102752)
    
*   GI: Fixed an issue with "OpenRL reported error code 501/502: rlBindBuffer/rlMapBuffer" that could occur when entering avatar configuration when baking or making sweeping changes to instances contained in the scene. ([1047430](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-getmanagerfromcontext-pointer-to-object-of-manager-lightmapsettings-is-null-table-index-25-when-configuring-avatar))
    
*   GI: Fixed by introducing proper round robin sampling between supersamples. ([936693](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/plm-supersampling-renders-indeterministic-results-with-direct-samples))
    
*   GI: Fixed documentation for Lightmapping.Clear and Lightmapping.ClearLightingDataAsset
    
*   GI: Fixed issue where Baked Albedo and Baked Emissive lightmaps are not shown in the lightmap Preview window after baking GI (1044274)
    
*   GI: Fixed LightingData.asset creation, so that only the first lighting generation in non-auto mode marks the scene dirty (in single- and multi-scene scenarios). ([1067913](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/localfileid-changes-frequently-when-baking-lighting))
    
*   GI: Fixed the Baked UV Charts debug lightmap (1078533)
    
*   GI: Fixed UV Overlap preview not displaying after a manual bake. ([1087688](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-baked-uv-overlap-mode-isnt-loaded-after-selecting-it-in-the-lightmap-preview-window))
    
*   GI: GICache errors are thrown when baking Terrain with trees having deringing enabled on the light probes ([1100362](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gicache-errors-are-thrown-when-baking-terrain-with-trees-having-deringing-enabled-on-the-light-probes))
    
*   GI: GPU Lightmapper: For baking default is to select the same graphic hardware as the editor.
    
*   GI: GPU Lightmapper: Stabilize noise when iterating on lighting.
    
*   GI: Indirect probe lighting should be affected by the indirect intensity slider in the Progressive Lightmapper. ([1060939](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/indirect-intensity-slider-has-no-effect-on-lightprobes-in-progressive-backends))
    
*   GI: Reflection Probes progress bar doesnt get cleared when cancelling.
    
*   Graphics: Added extra validation for RT volumeDepth (1096019)
    
*   Graphics: Explicitly disallow destroying of temporary render textures ([1070564](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/calling-destroyimmediate-after-rendertexture-dot-releasetemporary-causes-the-crash-in-renderbuffermanager-textures-gettempbuffer))
    
*   Graphics: Fix async readback when using Vulkan
    
*   Graphics: Fix for postprocessing and instanced stereo rendering only a white screen in LWRP (1100898)
    
*   Graphics: Fix Inspector Previews using black cubemaps for environment reflection. ([1039018](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metallic-objects-are-very-dark-in-the-preview-window))
    
*   Graphics: Fix issue with Animator preview not rendering grid in SRP (1044281)
    
*   Graphics: Fix out-of-memory when trying to compile shader that uses self-referencing macro (1104217)
    
*   Graphics: Fix selection of the correct subshader when rendering with the editor camera.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed an issue that would crash the editor when copying raw depth buffers. ([1040591](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copying-directional-light-depthmap-in-rawdepth-mode-crashes-unity-editor))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash with Texture Mipmap streaming scene view debug mode when light maps are recalculated. ([1095546](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dereferencing-null-pptr-crash-when-using-non-directional-lightmap-and-texture-streaming-scene-view))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed frame debugger showing bad keywords on some cases when connected to standalone playe ([1070614](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-does-not-display-all-additional-shader-keywords-when-debugging-a-built-player))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed frame debugger texture tooltip to show correct dimension info for 3D textures
    
*   Graphics: Fixed loading of compressed texture with incomplete mipmap chain ([1045189](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/opengl-unity-can-only-read-1-mipmap-from-dot-ktx-textures-when-the-texture-was-compressed-using-etc))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed memory overwrites in DX11 render target setting code.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed texture streaming crash bug which showed up when disabling and enabling renderers (1061165)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Vertex Compression not working for vectors with odd dimensions (positions and normals) ([1078795](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-ios-static-combined-meshes-dont-compress-odd-dimension-vertex-channels))
    
*   Graphics: Force rebaking of Reflection Probes in the Editor when changing the shader code of the Renderers used in baked Reflection Probes ([1020358](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/srp-template-template-geometry-is-hot-pink))
    
*   Graphics: HDR Mode in Graphics Settings is respected in LWRP ([1104140](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lwrp-graphics-settings-hdr-mode-is-being-ignored))
    
*   Graphics: MeshTopology.Quads generates a draw call that uses 3 point patches instead of 4 point ([1078885](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/meshtopology-dot-quads-generates-a-draw-call-that-uses-3-point-patches-instead-of-4-point))
    
*   Graphics: Metal/iOS: Fix scissor/viewport handling when used with Dynamic Resolution feature
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fix vertex/hull shader program translation into a tessellation compute kernel when there is no vertex input (1086957)
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fixed a performance issue that prevented GPU drivers from utilizing internal texture compression (did not apply to RenderTexture)
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fixed crash when creating Texture2DArray with a YUY2 TextureFormat ([1094777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-creating-a-texture2darray-with-a-yuy2-textureformat-crashes-the-editor))
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fixed crash when user created RT has unsupported sample count (1095433)
    
*   Graphics: Reinstate support for reading terrain brush textures. (1102243)
    
*   Graphics: Skip shadow lights and shadow casters culling when shadows are disabled ([1072624](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-shadows-disabling-shadows-in-quality-settings-doesnt-stop-shadow-caster-culling))
    
*   Graphics: Unity could crash if infinite dependency loop between "UsePass" and "Fallback" ([1068293](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-resolveusepasses-when-using-named-passes-from-other-shaders))
    
*   Graphics: Vulkan: Fixed a race condition between updating ComputeBuffers from script and rendering from them within Graphics jobs
    
*   Input: Correctly set/get sampling frequencies for sensors on iOS and Android platforms in the new input system.
    
*   iOS: Added an option to player settings to not add Game Center and Push Notifications Capabilities to Xcode project even if the project had code using those frameworks ([1101266](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-unity-adds-game-center-and-push-notifications-capabilities-to-xcode-project-if-you-have-code-using-those-features))
    
*   iOS: Fix LWRP crash on several SoC's (1098913)
    
*   iOS: Fix warnings related to launch image that were thrown when building for iOS in Xcode 10 ([1085602](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-game-crashes-when-forcing-portrait-upside-down-orientation-on-iphone-xs-slash-xs-max))
    
*   iOS: Fixed a crash when forcing Portrait Upside Down orientation on iPhone XS/XS Max ([1085662](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-wrong-screen-dot-safearea-on-iphone-on-start))
    
*   iOS: Fixed bug where changing Screen.orienation on some iOS devices would not update variable that holds the current orientation state (1088729)
    
*   iOS: Fixed DiscardContents and GrabIntoRenderTexture interop on Metal ([1082159](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-depth-texture-in-commandbuffer-and-customized-depth-of-field-shader-will-damage-the-rendertexture))
    
*   iOS: Fixed full screen movie resetting after app minimize on iOS ([840951](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/handheld-dot-playfullscreenmovie-movie-resets-when-minimizing-and-maximizing-the-application))
    
*   iOS: Fixed incorrect Screen.safeArea on plus sized iPhones (1087954)
    
*   iOS: Fixed issue when Screen.allowedOrientations are updated every frame (1103167)
    
*   iOS: Fixed occasional crash when destroying WebCamTexture ([1090053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-loading-a-scene-after-calling-webcamtexture-dot-getpixels-causes-the-game-to-crash))
    
*   iOS: Fixed possible crash on app exit when destroying static objects ([1050875](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-native-static-const-std-string-causes-crash-in-signal-sigkill-when-using-xcode-9))
    
*   iOS: Fully uncoupled accelerometer from gyroscope as it should be ([1085244](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-the-accelerometer-stops-working-when-disabling-the-gyroscope-in-build))
    
*   iOS: iOS: fixed more issues with reporting orientation when autorotating and tweaking enabled orientations ([1075839](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-screen-dot-orientation-returns-upsidedown-value-after-using-screen-dot-autorotatetoportrait-when-device-is-in-portrait-mode), [1075855](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-unity-rendering-in-wrong-screen-orientation-after-auto-rotation-on-ios-using-screen-dot-orientation))
    
*   iOS: Keyboard.onTextInput, Keyboard.onIMECompositionChange will be correctly called for physical and virtual keyboard events.
    
*   iOS: Remove the DISABLE\_TOUCH\_DELAYS define, `Defer system gestures` options in Player Settings should be used instead (available from iOS 11) (1087337)
    
*   Linux: Fix for Editor windows repaint bug (Ubuntu 16.04) (1107716)
    
*   Linux: Fixed issue where tabs were incorrectly processed twice. ([1080441](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-android-key-creation-dialog-tabbing-skips-every-other-field))
    
*   Linux: Fixed touchpad scrolling being too sensitive in the Linux Editor ([1073152](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-scroll-sensitivity-of-touchpad-is-too-high))
    
*   Linux: Linux and Mac will now launch the BugReport crash handler when a SIGABRT is sent. ([1074324](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-forcecrash-forcedcrashcategory-dot-abort-not-being-caught-by-crash-reporter))
    
*   Linux: Linux: Crash in UnityEngine.Input.GetJoystickNames when controllers are removed & reconnected ([1080508](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-in-unityengine-dot-input-dot-getjoysticknames-when-controllers-with-comma-in-name-are-plugged-in))
    
*   Linux: Resolve an issue where double-clicking on Linux Standalone Players did not function in Nautilus. ([1047075](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-executable-doesnt-launch-and-has-incorrect-icon))
    
*   Mobile: Fix Ambient Occlusion in PostProcessing v2 on mobiles ([1059893](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-post-processing-ambient-occlusion-does-not-work))
    
*   Mobile: Fix Standard shader artifacts on mobiles
    
*   Mobile: Fixed flickering on objects when dynamic batching is enabled ([1061477](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-objects-are-flickering-when-dynamic-batching-is-enabled))
    
*   Mobile: Support for Bluetooth headphones microphone for both Android and iOS ([946201](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mobile-support-for-bluetooth-headphones-microphone))
    
*   Mobile: \[iOS\]\[Metal\] Always stretching the final render to the full screen, no letterbox when rendered image aspect ratio does not match the aspect ratio of the screen ([1077959](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-iphonex-incorrect-tap-position-is-returned-on-the-certain-screen-areas))
    
*   Multiplayer: Fix syncvar variables sequential refreshing issue. ([1085466](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/syncvar-refresh-is-not-being-updated-in-sequence))
    
*   OSX: Fixed "Using Metal Editor" now showing (1094058)
    
*   OSX: Fixed an issue building the Mac Editor using customer source code distributions
    
*   OSX: Fixed case where color picker would not properly select color when cursor size was beyond normal size ([1074188](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/retina-mac-color-picker-with-increased-cursor-size-does-not-pick-selected-color-from-the-screen))
    
*   OSX: Fixed GPU selector being always disabled ([1055634](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-cant-change-graphics-device-to-use-in-standalone-built-project))
    
*   OSX: Fixed MacOS player crashing when Resolution Dialog looses focus (1106074)
    
*   OSX: Fixed resolution crash when setting to invalid values via script ([1070915](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-standalone-after-set-the-width-and-height-to-be-0-player-quits-then-crashes))
    
*   Package Manager: Add a confirm dialog and trace when user selects "Reset Packages to defaults" in "Help" menu ([1066143](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/confirmation-window-does-not-appear-when-pressing-on-help-reset-packages-to-defaults))
    
*   Package Manager: Fix an issue that prevented specific native plugins to be correctly identified the second time a project was loaded.
    
*   Package Manager: Fix error message when dragging Packages folder on to Favorites section ([1084176](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/move-of-a-savedfilter-has-invalid-input-errors-appear-when-dragging-packages-folder-on-to-favorite-section-in-project-window))
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed an issue where cancelling import of package assets would still result in those assets being imported after restarting Unity. The Cancel button of the asset import progress bar is now disabled. ([1104196](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-manager-canceling-package-install-forces-you-to-install-or-restart))
    
*   Package Manager: Not installed packages are shown in package manager window ([1098870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/not-installed-packages-are-shown-in-package-manager-window))
    
*   Package Manager: Open offline documentations when the online ones are not accessible.
    
*   Package Manager: Packages, that are imported as dependencies for other packages, are not shown in Package Manager UI ([1057210](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packages-that-are-imported-as-dependencies-for-other-packages-are-not-shown-in-package-manager-ui))
    
*   Particles: Added error message when trying to use a statically batched mesh in the Particle System ([1075564](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shape-cant-use-a-static-mesh-renderer-for-an-emission-shape))
    
*   Particles: Fixed prewarm bug causing particles to emit incorrectly ([1064065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particles-start-emitting-later-or-disappear-for-a-second-when-entering-play-mode-with-different-fixed-timestep-values))
    
*   Particles: Inverted how spherical wind zones affect Particle Systems, to fix inconsistency between particles and trees ([1053956](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trees-and-particles-behave-oppositely-while-being-affected-by-a-spherical-wind-zone))
    
*   Particles: Multi-selecting billboard and mesh particles hid the particle material slot in the inspector ([1077827](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renderer-multi-selecting-billboard-and-mesh-particles-hides-the-particle-material-slot-in-the-inspector))
    
*   Particles: Particle sorting was incorrect with ortho camera with negative near clipping plane when using sort by distance ([1056469](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cone-shape-particles-are-not-rendered-properly-in-camera-with-orthographic-projection-when-using-sort-by-distance))
    
*   Particles: Particle start speed now uses sub-frame time to distribute valuise correctly when using Curve modes ([1063952](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-start-speed-is-not-evaluated-in-the-sub-frame-time-intervals-when-using-curve-mode))
    
*   Particles: Particle System bounds ignored Shape Y scale when using Rectangle emission shape ([1064275](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-bounds-ignore-shape-y-scale-when-using-rectangle-emission-shape))
    
*   Particles: Particle system bounds were incorrect when particles used meshes with a large offset pivot in the model data. ([1090863](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-bounds-are-incorrect-when-particles-are-meshes-with-offset-pivot))
    
*   Particles: Particle trails could be culled incorrectly when using the World Space trails option. ([1089679](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-trails-are-culled-while-still-within-camera-bounds))
    
*   Particles: Particles with the Render alignment set to "Facing" billboarded incorrectly with directional lights ([1072493](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-particles-with-the-render-allignment-set-to-facing-act-incorrectly-with-directional-lights))
    
*   Particles: Setting the scale of a GameObject didn't adjust the Pivot value of a StretchedBillboard ParticleSystem ([1068381](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-setting-the-scale-of-a-gameobject-doesnt-adjust-the-pivot-value-of-a-particlesystems-renderer-module))
    
*   Particles: Sub Emitter particles were not randomized when using Auto Random Seed ([1068735](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sub-emitter-particles-are-not-randomized-when-using-auto-random-seed))
    
*   Physics: CharacterController will now ignore Rigidbodies that have their collision detection turned off ([984035](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/charactercontroller-doesnt-respect-rigidbody-dot-detectcollisions-set-to-false))
    
*   Physics: Ensure that 2D trigger/collision exit callbacks occur when destroying a GameObject inside a 2D trigger/collision callback ([1057320](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerexit2d-not-triggered-when-collider-gameobject-is-destroyed-from-another-colliders-ontriggerenter2d))
    
*   Physics: Ensure that 2D trigger/collision exit callbacks occur when disabling a GameObject or 2D collider component. ([1071700](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerexit2d-is-not-being-triggered-when-disabling-other-gameobject-with-a-trigger))
    
*   Physics: Fix a crash in the 2D physics manager on iOS upon start-up when Physics2D package is disabled. ([1080899](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-in-initialize-at-physicsmanager2d-before-the-splash-screen))
    
*   Physics: Fix crash when adding a MeshCollider without CookingOptions.CookForFasterSimulation. Fixed by PhysX 3.4 Upgrade. ([1041838](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adding-meshcollider-meshes-without-cookingoptions-dot-cookforfastersimulation-causes-crash-in-physx-subsortquick-sort4))
    
*   Physics: Fix issue when copying and pasting cloth component values. ([975495](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pasting-cloth-component-values-causes-scene-view-to-break))
    
*   Physics: Fix issue where physics internal query data may not be updated if there are only static colliders in scene , causing shape cast issue ([1064897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-physics-dot-spherecast-does-not-properly-detect-collisions-when-clicking-on-certain-objects-spots))
    
*   Physics: Fix poor performance of self and inter collision gizmos for cloth. ([963985](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/having-the-self-and-inter-collision-gizmos-visible-lowers-performance-significantly))
    
*   Physics: Fixed an issue where raycast may fail on terrain collider ([1063586](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raycast-fails))
    
*   Physics: RelativeJoint2D now correctly handles rotation. ([1103365](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics2d-relativejoint2d-should-support-driven-rotations-as-per-box2d))
    
*   Physics: Stop NullReferenceException due to sprite-snapping when dragging a Joint2D anchor when the same GameObject contains a SpriteRenderer without an assigned Sprite. ([1077680](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-when-moving-around-a-springjoint2d-with-a-rigidbody-reference-to-an-empty-sprite))
    
*   Prefabs: Added localization to Overrides window and PrefabUtility dialogs.
    
*   Prefabs: Editor crashes with PrefabImporter::GenerateAssetData when importing "PBR Flower Pack" Asset ([1084315](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-with-prefabimporter-generateassetdata-when-importing-pbr-flower-pack-asset))
    
*   Prefabs: Fix null reference exception when clicking on text "No Overrides" in Overrides dropdown after applying changes via Comparison view. (1099228)
    
*   Prefabs: Newly create prefab variant's name contains entire path when the original prefab is not directly under the Assets folder ([1082940](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/newly-create-prefab-variants-name-contains-entire-path-when-the-original-prefab-is-not-directly-under-the-assets-folder))
    
*   Prefabs: Result is missing from OnWillCreateAsset() when the method is called by creating a Prefab ([1087603](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/result-is-missing-from-onwillcreateasset-when-the-method-is-called-by-creating-a-prefab))
    
*   Prefabs: \[Nested Prefabs\] "PPtr cast failed when dereferencing! Casting from PrefabInstance to Prefab!" after upgrading Corridor scene ([1065694](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nested-prefabs-pptr-cast-failed-when-dereferencing-casting-from-prefabinstance-to-prefab-after-upgrading-corridor-scene))
    
*   Profiler: Fix increased memory usage by profiler for long lasting background operations. (1094748)
    
*   Profiler: Fixed coroutines naming in profiler. ([1033280](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-incorrect-processes-are-assigned-to-coroutines-in-coroutinesdelayedcalls-when-in-play-mode))
    
*   Profiler: Fixed Profiler stats recording when profiling Editor with runtime profiler API. (Profiler.enabled)
    
*   ps4: Clear htile buffer at allocation to avoid potential depth buffer corruption
    
*   ps4: Fixed compiling of PS4 when not using lumping
    
*   ps4: Fixed correct reporting of default new and delete allocations
    
*   ps4: Stopped script only builds for non-development configurations
    
*   Scripting: Add System.Data.dll in the references ([1075265](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-project-cant-be-compiled-because-library-targeting-net-standard-2-dot-0-doesnt-work))
    
*   Scripting: Allow extra optional characters than whitespace after preprocessor directive if and elif ([1104428](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/stack-empty-exception-is-thrown-with-net-4-dot-x-when-compiling-a-script-with-without-a-space-after-the-number-if-logic))
    
*   Scripting: Assigning a custom Debug.logger.logHandler intercept thrown exceptions ([753944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assigning-a-custom-debug-dot-logger-dot-loghandler-doesnt-intercept-thrown-exceptions))
    
*   Scripting: CSharpNamescapeParser throws InvalidOperationException, fixing precendence checking for CSharpNamespaceParser. ([1099297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-add-a-script-to-an-object-when-the-script-has-precompilers-inside-of-the-class-that-is-also-inside-of-the-namespace), [1101447](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/csharpnamescapeparser-throws-invalidoperationexception-stack-empty))
    
*   Scripting: Disallow modifications of serialized data in m\_Component on GameObject ([1022204](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-crashes-when-exiting-the-play-mode-in-the-specific-project), [1082089](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gameobject-isactive-when-calling-prefabutility-dot-instantiateprefab))
    
*   Scripting: Fix crash when adding multiple components of a disallowed type ([959136](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trying-to-add-two-same-script-components-with-disallowmultiplecomponent-via-test-causes-unity-to-crash))
    
*   Scripting: Fix invalid UTF8 characters from imported assets. ([1086920](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copyright-symbol-c-causes-invalid-utf8-string-error-when-observing-scripts-inspector-window), 1114945)
    
*   Scripting: Fix so we can stop yielded Coroutines deeper than 3 ([1089467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/coroutine-cant-be-stopped-via-stopcoroutine-if-it-has-3-or-more-nested-yield-return-coroutines))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed a bug where building players with "using alias" directives pointing to types in other assemblies if those types were not actually used would fail.
    
*   Scripting: Fixed: originalProjection variable in Camera.projectionMatrix Scripting API example is not initialized ([1097500](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-throw-when-using-documentation-example-of-camera-dot-projectionmatrix))
    
*   Scripting: Generate fullpath for response file references ([1068300](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/system-dot-net-dot-http-dot-dll-could-not-be-found-error-is-thrown-when-response-file-is-present-in-assets-folder))
    
*   Scripting: Improved handling and added error in cases where text serialised data is malformed, corrupted or in a unexpected state (1071531)
    
*   Scripting: Improved performance when calling GameObject.AddComponent for a nested MonoBehaviour class inside a namespace ([1085304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-dot-addcomponent-performance-severely-degrades-in-execution-time-with-each-call-when-the-call-is-inside-a-namespace))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fixed crash in ScriptUpdater.exe when code contains qualified references to methods of type that were statically imported (#using static). ([1081267](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apiupdater-crashes-when-script-has-qualified-access-to-statically-imported-types))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fixes APIUpdater crash when project path contains $ char ([1088028](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dollars-character-in-project-name-prevents-script-upgrading))
    
*   Shaders: Fixed edge/inside tesselation factors being improperly handled by metal shader compiler ([1065883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-edge-length-tessellation-throws-compilation-error-when-using-vertex-normal-on-the-vertex-function))
    
*   Shaders: Fixed surface shaders analysis step sometimes missing inputs when keepalpha is specified ([864173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-pass-surface-shader-does-not-include-vertex-color-data-in-the-second-pass))
    
*   Shaders: Made editor log on shader compiler crashes more clean and useful. ([1097215](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-displays-millions-of-lines-of-shader-source-in-editor-log-when-the-shader-compiler-crashes-during-builds))
    
*   Shaders: Zero-init appdata in domain surface shader to avoid compiler error about out parameter not being fully inited ([1065883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-edge-length-tessellation-throws-compilation-error-when-using-vertex-normal-on-the-vertex-function))
    
*   Terrain: "Remove Light Probe Ringing" setting now can be serialized and undone. ([1093751](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-remove-light-probe-ringing-not-serialized-and-tracked-by-undo-in-terrain-settings))
    
*   Terrain: Fixed border artifacts when terrain height is painted (1098118)
    
*   Terrain: Fixed crash when terrain with empty trees database moved in scene view ([1087072](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-crash-when-moving-terrain-in-scene-view))
    
*   Terrain: Fixed selection outline of terrain to work from the back side as well ([1098438](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-back-side-of-terrain-not-included-in-selection-pass))
    
*   Terrain: Terrain auto-upgrade on load is now recognized as having been updated. ([1081612](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-layers-are-not-explicitly-linked-to-the-terrain-object-after-upgrade))
    
*   Timeline: Fix events send twice when just before the end of a clip ([1017658](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-sequence-doesnt-fire-animation-events-that-are-on-the-last-frames-when-several-clips-are-played), [1022016](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-animation-event-thats-close-to-the-last-frame-gets-called-twice-when-it-transitions-to-another-animation))
    
*   UI: Cache referencePixelsPerUnit when canvas parent is disabled ([1066689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-borders-of-an-image-change-when-disabling-and-re-enabling-a-canvas-after-changing-its-worldcamera))
    
*   UI: Do not make the material dirty when rendering with a RectMask2D ([967024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/canvas-batching-system-dirties-project-user-created-materials-when-using-rect-mask-2d))
    
*   UI: Fix bug where Dropdown doesn't close when clicking outside it under certain cicumstance ([1064466](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dropdown-doesnt-close-when-clicking-outside-it-under-certain-cicumstance))
    
*   UI: Fixed case where inputfield cursor wouldn't be positionned properly ([1083649](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inputfields-image-doesnt-extend-to-fit-the-length-of-the-text-fields-value-when-editing-it-in-the-inspector))
    
*   UI: Fixed case where ui filtering in scene view did not function properly (1064210)
    
*   UI: Fixed issue where loading a scene with an orphaned ui component would cause a crash ([1085469](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-transform-getlocalposition-when-opening-a-specific-scene))
    
*   UI: Fixed issue where nested canvases with canvas scalers wouldn't work properly ([1033895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-removing-or-disabling-canvasscaler-corrupts-ui-which-cannot-be-undone))
    
*   UI: Fixed issue with nested canvases with canvas groups and custom alphas not working properly ([1084745](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/canvas-group-children-with-canvas-component-are-faded-when-changing-alpha-parameter-in-the-canvas-group))
    
*   UI: Fixed the bug where changing the Constraint Count for a Grid Layout Component would cause a Division by Zero Error. ([1075194](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dividebyzeroexception-division-by-zero-error-when-changing-the-constraint-count-for-a-grid-layout-1))
    
*   UI: PhysicsRaycaster and Physics2DRaycaster now support multiple-displays. ([1027701](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physicsraycaster-does-not-work-with-multiple-displays))
    
*   UI: UIElements: fix UXML factories not initialized when creating instantiating assets at Editor startup (1045535)
    
*   UI: UIElements: Fixed ListView.Refresh computing incorrect offset for first row when item source changes
    
*   UI: UIElements: Fixed PopupField text overflow
    
*   UI Elements: Address issue with UXML template instance always appearing at the end of their parent. (1104566)
    
*   UI Elements: Can now close a window from a scheduler callback without errors (1098721)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed the behaviour of all TextField and numeric field when pressing Enter, the control is now leaving edit mode. (1096200)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed the behaviour of all TextField and numeric field when pressing Escape, the older value is now restored. (1096199)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed the VectorXXFields going on 2 lines when the window is made small. (1049285)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed UIElements not responding correctly to Return key, Keypad Enter Key, and space key for Toggle, GradientField, CurveField, ObjectField, EnumField and all popup related fields.
    
*   UI Elements: List View selection is now dimmed when the view doesn't have keyboard focus (1085251)
    
*   UI Elements: ObjectField: Pressing delete now clears contents ([1062184](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uielements-objectfield-pressing-delete-does-not-clear-contents-like-imgui-behaviour))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Addresses unhanded exception when issuing WebRequest with URI consisting of domain name and port ([1066792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-app-crashes-when-calling-unitywebrequest-dot-sendwebrequest-if-url-contains-domain-name-and-port))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Builds now fail if the certificate is expired ([1022794](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-unity-allows-building-with-an-expired-uwp-certificate))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fix InputField text selection so it works on Windows 10 touch-enabled devices ([1002834](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-input-fields-blinking-cursor-position-cant-be-change-on-devices-with-touch-input-enabled))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes an assert triggered when Xbox gamepads are disconnected in some situations (1080114)
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes Animator changing GameObject's position when animation job is empty ([1095938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-il2cpp-empty-animation-state-offsets-components-in-a-master-build))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes build error in Editor when using Entities package for UWP ([1067528](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-building-an-application-on-uwp-fails-when-entities-package-is-installed))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes characters not dispatched to NewInput ([1097242](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-keyboard-oninputtext-does-not-work))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes nullptr Exception thrown by WebCamTexture when stopping video playback causing memory leak ([1036939](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webcamtexture-doesnt-free-all-allocated-memory-on-uwp-upon-destruction))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes Stereo Display (non head-mounted) VR SDK being unavailable ([1033346](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-camera-dot-stereoenabled-returns-false-with-stereo-display-non-head-mounted-vr-sdk))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes Visual Studio warning from generated UWP project concerning missing VS2015 toolset ([1091279](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-warning-is-printed-in-visual-studios-2017-for-a-missing-visual-studio-2015-v140-toolset))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixes WebCamTexture failing to play in certain (rare) situations ([1044635](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-app-triggers-an-exception-when-starting-to-play-webcam-texture))
    
*   Video: Disregard unsupported stream on Windows ([1065499](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-error-is-thrown-when-playing-mov-file-which-was-made-on-iphone-ios-10))
    
*   Video: Fix crash when calling Prepare() on a VideoPlayer component held by a delay destroyed GameObject ([1096915](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/videoplayer-callbacks-renderforcamera-crashes-when-loading-a-scene-in-play-mode))
    
*   Video: Fixed crash on specific avi video files on windows ([1088203](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-windowsvideomedia-copytorgba-when-importing-avi-file))
    
*   Video: Fixed crash on specific MPEG2 video files on windows ([1082071](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-playing-mpeg2-video-in-inspector))
    
*   Video: Fixed video with 6 audio channels crashes when switching between videos on iOS ([935497](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-videoplayer-video-with-6-audio-channels-crashes-when-switching-between-videos))
    
*   Video: Improved VideoPlayer network error handling on Windows ([1051461](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-videoplayer-dot-errorreceived-callback-is-not-triggered-when-internet-connection-is-lost))
    
*   Video: Resolved VideoPlayer player is paused when unplugging headphones ([1086705](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-videoplayer-dot-isplaying-keeps-returning-true-when-the-video-is-paused))
    
*   Video: VideoPlayer Camera Plane targets now visible in SRP ([1024877](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-player-doesnt-show-anything-on-hd-scriptable-render-pipeline))
    
*   Video: VR single-pass instancing mode is now supported by the VideoPlayer (950205)
    
*   Video: \[Recorder\] Frame rate drops drastically when using Movie Recorder to record as WebM ([1052060](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/recorder-frame-rate-drops-drastically-when-using-movie-recorder-to-record-as-webm))
    
*   WebGL: Fix Application.Quit() and memory cleanup ([1032870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-player-continues-to-run-after-webgl-content-is-removed-from-dom))
    
*   WebGL: Fix for camera viewport rect bug in WebGL with linear color space ([957652](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-linear-color-space-camera-viewport-rect-problem-in-built-game))
    
*   WebGL: Fixed build window linear color space compatibility check (1105479)
    
*   WebGL: Fixed Editor preventing to build for WebGL when Linear Color space is enabled (1103083)
    
*   WebGL: Fixed Performnance Reporting integer overflow in WebAssembly development builds.
    
*   Windows: Fixed Application.isFocused returning true if the player has been minimized before the first scene loaded ([1080560](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-dot-isfocused-is-true-when-starting-the-build-application-and-while-in-unity-intro-screen-unfocusing-the-window))
    
*   Windows: Fixed editor freezing when certain devices (Steinberg UR 22 mk II, Cronus MAX) are connected to the computer ([917526](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-hangs-when-opening-project-with-steinberg-ur-22-mk-ii-connected))
    
*   Windows: Improved error messages after failing to load native plugins on Windows Standalone and UWP if one of their dependencies is missing (1083178)
    
*   Windows: Improves ExclusiveFullscreen resolution not being set if/when DXGI fails to apply requested resolution ([1058040](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-dot-setresolution-width-height-fullscreenmode-disregards-resolution-when-changing-to-exclusivefullscreen))
    
*   XR: Fix for VR tree shader using Alpha-to-Coverage when MSAA is disabled ([1074421](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/details-are-lost-too-early-for-terrain-trees-in-vr))
    
*   XR: Fix player crash when using Google Cardboard API (1102049)
    
*   XR: Mac VR Billboarded trees are improperly lit if VR is enabled (1025108)
    
*   XR: Performance fixes for viewport scaling for performance on tiled renderers ([1014390](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-renderviewportscale-1-dot-0-is-less-performant-than-1-dot-0-when-msaa-is-enabled))
    

Revision: 83b3ba1f99df  
Generated: 2019-01-28 19:51