### Known Issues in 2023.3.0a5

- Cloth:  Cannot use Paint tool
    ([UUM-35062](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cloth-cannot-use-paint-tool))

- Contextual Menu: Fix for 2023.3.X: [Contextual Menus]  Save Layout  popup isn't displayed for the user after the contextual menus update
    (UUM-46310)

- DirectX11: [AMD] [DX11] Additional lights are broken when Spotlight is added to the Scene
    ([UUM-20625](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-aditional-lights-are-broken-when-built-with-urp))

- Editor: Ensure we do not change scroll area if selection is identical.
    (UUM-47748)    <br>*Fixed in 2023.3.0a6.*

- Editor: Removed duplication of the logs entries.<br>
    Limited the amount of allocations while searching and displaying logs in the console.<br>
    Improved search performance for the large amount of entries.
    (UUM-41481)    <br>*Fixed in 2023.3.0a6.*

- Graphics: Fix a BatchRendererGroup thread race condition under special circumstances
    (UUM-46934)    <br>*Fixed in 2023.3.0a6.*

- Graphics: Fixes the rendering artifacts using Custom Render Texture shader on Sphere Game Object and material preview on DirectX11 and DirectX12 platforms.
    ([UUM-43540](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendering-artifacts-using-custom-render-texture-shader-on-sphere-game-object-on-macos-metal-api))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.3.0a6.*

- HD RP: Memory leaks are detected when Adaptive Probe Volumes are enabled
    ([UUM-47974](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leaks-are-detected-when-adaptive-probe-volumes-are-enabled))

- Serialization: Editor Crashes on WalkTypeTreeComplete<`SerializedObjectTypeTreeWalk::ContainsManagedReferences'::`2'::IsManagedReferenceVisitor> when a list with serialize reference fields is re-ordered
    ([UUM-47108](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-walktypetreecomplete-serializedobjecttypetreewalk-containsmanagedreferences-2-ismanagedreferencevisitor-when-a-list-with-serialize-reference-fields-is-re-ordered))

- UI Builder: The Editor fails to load Layout Preset when it includes the UI Builder 
    ([UUM-48802](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-fails-to-load-layout-preset-when-it-includes-the-ui-builder))

- UI Toolkit: Added a workaround for a Intel Graphics 3000 driver bug that would cause textures rendered by UI Toolkit to show incorrectly.
    ([UUM-13134](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-is-rendered-without-the-toolbar-icons-when-using-it-on-old-hardware-with-integrated-gpu))    <br>*Fixed in 2023.3.0a6.*



### New 2023.3.0a5 Entries since 2023.3.0a4

#### Features

- HDRP: Added path tracing support for the Rendering Debugger &gt; Lighting &gt; Material Overrides.

- Universal RP: Added support for foveated rendering in the Forward+ rendering path.

- VFX Graph: VFXG-370 Improve ShaderGraph Cross Pipeline workflow



#### Improvements

- Documentation: Added two new workflows to the Timeline Workflows documentation<br>
    - The `Use markers and signals for footsteps` workflow demonstrates how to use Timeline markers, Signal assets, and Signal Receiver components to play audio sources for footsteps.<br>
    - The `Create a Sub-Timeline instance` workflow demonstrates how to create a single cut-scene by nesting a Timeline instance within another Timeline instance.

- Physics: Improved Physics callback dispatching performance by jobifying the processing of trigger and joint break events and only dispatching events that have their callback implemented.

- UI Toolkit: Improved UI Builder performances when using uxml serialization and data bindings.

- UI Toolkit: Updated the bound fields in the UI Builder Inspector so they can be navigated through keyboard events.



#### API Changes

- Editor: Added: layout field in the DropdownMenuDescriptor to the behavior of the menu when there is a large number of items.



#### Changes

- Editor: \[Android\] Exceptions for "Unspecified Version" when including Play Libraries have been removed due to the logic changes when fixing Regex for Core-Common.
    ([UUM-44744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-regex-in-checkplaylibraryadded-incorrectly-identifies-play-core-common-libraries))

- Editor: \[Android\] Moved Play Library checks for plugins and gradle dependencies into methods for use in Editor Tests, to avoid building player in every test.
    ([UUM-44744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-regex-in-checkplaylibraryadded-incorrectly-identifies-play-core-common-libraries))

- Package: Updated the package version of com.unity.scripting.python to 7.0.1.

- Physics: `OnTriggerEnter` events now have their matching `OnTriggerStay` dispatched after an `OnTriggerEnter` event, rather than wait for all `OnTriggerEnter` events to be dispatched.



#### Fixes

- 2D: Fixed an issue where a GameObject instantiated by a Tile is recreated on the player when the user refreshes the Tile without changing the Tile.
    ([UUM-45589](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemap-refreshes-gameobjects-when-tile-doesnt-change-when-using-the-player))

- 2D: Fixed High memory usage and crash on DynamicHeapAllocator::CreateTLSFBlock when opening project with Sprite Atlas V2 enabled.
    ([UUM-43709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/high-memory-usage-and-crash-on-dynamicheapallocator-createtlsfblock-when-opening-project-with-sprite-atlas-v2-enabled))

- Accessibility: Fixed issue with creating new AccessibilityNodes when the hierarchy was already active.
    (UUM-48004)

- Android: Applied a fix to correctly set the sensor name and vendor when reporting to the input system package. Previously only sensor type was being reported, while name and vendor were empty strings.
    (UUM-47130)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.3.0a4.*

- Android: Fixed an issue with `APP_CMD_WINDOW_INSETS_CHANGED` to correctly report for GameActivity when soft keyboard is opened/closed.
    (UUM-47094)

- Android: Fixed Input.multiTouchEnabled setter when it's called before any touch event, previously such values would be disregarded since internally there was no touch device available for multiTouch to set to.
    ([UUM-47104](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-input-dot-multitouchenabled-changes-to-true-when-system-overlays-are-called))

- Apple TV: fixed build of generated xcode project with xcode beta.
    ([UUM-44352](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-unable-to-build-any-tvos-project-using-xcode-15-beta))

- Asset Pipeline: Accelerator settings accessors check for null settings ptr.
    ([UUM-46142](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-failed-on-expression-s-editorsettings-equals-null-when-exiting-the-editor-with-accelerator-active))

- Build System: Make MsvcInstallationLocator.ParseVSWhereResult accept input with a BOM.

- Core: Fixed an issue where importing a hybrid package could fail if there was already a package with a prefix of the hybrid package's UPM package name.
    ([UUM-43102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-a-custom-package-fails-when-the-beginning-of-the-name-collides-with-another-package))

- DX12: Fixed "ReleaseDynamicVBOFrame: Unexpected frame".<br>
    Explanation: TryDequeue was not being used properly internally, which would cause wrong frame dequeues and a frame mistach id.
    ([UUM-28962](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/releasedynamicvboframe-unexpected-frame-errors-thrown-in-the-console-window-when-creating-a-project-using-3d-sample-scene-hdrp-template))

- Editor: Changed lens flare behavior to ignore Camera Culling Masks.
    ([UUM-44191](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lens-flares-ignore-camera-culling-masks))

- Editor: Fixed Camera.GetStereoEnabled\(\) to return true only if the camera is rendering a stereo view.
    ([UUM-47881](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-camera-dot-stereoenabled-returns-true-for-all-cameras-if-xr-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed CPU architecture in the plugin inspector resetting after applying changes.
    (UUM-45756)

- Editor: Fixed low CPU performance issues with entities.graphics/BRG, Vulkan, and large batches of similar meshes.
    ([UUM-33174](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/entities-graphics-renderpipelinemanager-dot-dorenderloop-internal-has-slow-performance-on-android-devices))

- Editor: Fixed offset of camera position when using the light placement tool.
    (UUM-47863)

- Editor: In Project Settings, under the Time heading, the Fixedstep value is now rounded to 4 significant digits.
    ([UUM-43331](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fixed-timestep-is-set-to-0-dot-01999999-by-default-in-project-settings))

- Editor: \[Android\] Fixed Regex that checks for Play Libraries to avoid errors when using Core-Common libraries instead of only Play Core errors as expected. Regex now expects a series of digits/dots after the term "core" to avoid the confusion.
    ([UUM-44744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-regex-in-checkplaylibraryadded-incorrectly-identifies-play-core-common-libraries))

- Graphics: Fixed static batched geometries not built correctly in acceleration structures causing missing objects in ray tracing effects or using wrong materials.
    ([UUM-47435](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/geometries-disappear-when-entering-play-mode))<br>
    *First seen in 2023.3.0a3.*

- Graphics: Fixed Vulkan rendering when viewport or scissor rectangle has negative offset.
    ([UUM-39970](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-the-gameobject-isnt-rendered-when-rect-x-position-in-commandbuffer-dot-setviewport-is-less-than-0-dot-5))

- HDRP: Changed lens flare behavior to use the camera culling mask and the GameObject layer.
    (HDRP-3062)

- HDRP: Fixed fog on spherical planets.
    (UUM-47646)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.3.0a1.*

- HDRP: Fixed Helpbox UI for LightProbeGroup Inspector.
    (UUM-47718)

- HDRP: Fixed virtual offset on complex geometries.
    (UUM-47308)

- IL2CPP: Fixed build failure when a delegate had a first parameter that was a function pointer.
    ([UUM-44037](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-il2cpp-build-error-occurs-when-method-first-parameter-is-an-unmanaged-delegate))

- IL2CPP: Fixed UnsafeUtililty.IsUnmanaged/UnsafeUtililty.IsBlittable returning incorrect results.
    (UUM-43422)

- iOS: Fixed crash when having Build Postprocessor run after "Sign in with Apple" Unity Plugin \(AppleSignInUnity\).

- Linux: Fixed an issue where Linux Player generated mouse delta values when clicking the left mouse button repeatedly.
    ([UUM-46825](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-player-mouse-delta-values-are-generated-when-clicking-the-lmb-repeatedly-while-the-cursor-is-motionless))

- macOS: Fixed a driver issue that happened when the water system was enabled.
    (UUM-47762)

- Mono: Fixed issue where blittable flag could be incorrect when it was read before MonoClass was inited.
    (UUM-35682)

- N/A \(internal\): Fixed the Device Simulator Analytics events to call at correct times.
    (UUM-34131)

- Networking: Fixed issue where UnityWebRequest would fail to establish TLS connections with Windows Server 2012 and 2016.
    ([UUM-41557](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unitywebrequest-uses-tlsv1-protocol-during-tls-handshake-instead-of-tlsv1-dot-2-protocol-when-calling-the-unitywebrequest-dot-get-method))

- Package Manager: Custom, local and git packages will only follow information from the package.json from now on.
    (UUM-47732)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.3.0a4.*

- Package Manager: Fixed bug where Editor would crash when a project manifest is saved with UTF-8 with BOM encoding or project manifest begins with a special character.
    (UUM-46806)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.3.0a2.*

- Package Manager: Removed warning icons when an asset store download is aborted.
    (UUM-47319)

- Physics: Fixed moving child triggers causing parent bodies to recalculate their center of mass.
    ([UUM-30798](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody-recalculates-its-center-of-mass-when-moving-its-child-trigger-collider))

- Physics 2D: Fixed an issue where both Animation Root Motion rotation and Animation Transform rotation did not rotate a Rigidbody2D correctly.
    ([UUM-44297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/collider-rotation-is-not-affected-when-using-the-update-mode-animate-physics-on-the-animator-to-change-the-rotation))

- Shadergraph: Fixed a regression where adding nodes in large graphs caused a major slowdown.
    (UUM-46770)

- SRP Core: When changing the *Global Settings* asset, the UI was not being refreshed to and the old asset was being displayed.
    ([UUM-46874](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rpw-global-settings-pages-crashes-when-changing-the-current-global-settings-asset))

- Terrain: Fixed a player crash when a terrain tile completely made of holes was viewed from a distance.
    ([UUM-45970](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-crashes-when-auto-connect-is-enabled-for-terrains-in-the-terrain-group))

- TextCore: Fixed an issue were errors were thrown for incorrectly formatted tags.
    ([UUM-11753](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unicode-character-error-in-console-when-browsing-assets-in-package-manager))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed an issue with Surrounding dropdown not closing correctly in certain situations.
    ([UUM-33691](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-dropdown-will-not-close-when-clicked-outside-of-it))

- uGUI: Fixed an issue with Surrounding dropdown not closing correctly in certain situations.

- UI Toolkit: Fixed issue where you cannot set sortColumnDescriptions property after columns property in multi-column controls.
    (UIT-2124)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed ScrollView produces jittery animation when playing PostPointerUpAnimation.
    ([UUM-40352](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scrollview-produces-jittery-animation-when-playing-postpointerupanimation))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed sorting change events being sent during reapplication of view data state.
    ([UUM-36302](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-profiler-ui-toolkit-multicolumntreeview-initializes-default-sortcolumns-too-late-for-initial-sorting))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Builder Viewport background turns white after docking or undocking the UI Builder Window.
    ([UUM-47261](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-viewport-background-turns-white-after-docking-or-undocking-the-ui-builder-window))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Document Live Reload feature being systematically triggered when entering Play mode with the UI Builder window open.
    ([UUM-43595](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-mouse-events-do-not-trigger-when-ui-builder-is-open))

- Universal RP: Add GBuffer \(fill\) passes to ComplexLit and Unlit shader to prevent GBuffer data holes.
    ([UUM-21919](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/complex-lit-shader-has-black-slash-missing-pixels-when-viewed-in-albedo-mode))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue causing 'implicit truncation of vector type' warning when using ShaderGraph shaders in the Forward+ Rendering Path
    ([UUM-46851](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/implicit-truncation-of-vector-type-shader-warning-when-rendering-path-is-set-to-forward-plus))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where Rendering Layers didn't work properly when opening a project.
    ([UUM-44741](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-is-not-rendered-when-ssao-is-enabled-and-rendering-path-is-set-to-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed memory leak from render texture when rtHandle realloc failed to be added to pool.
    ([UUM-46882](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-render-texture-memory-leak))

- Universal RP: Fixed noise and flicker caused by TAA when the *Very High* option is in use.
    ([UUM-37582](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-in-game-ui-text-is-blurry-and-shimmering-when-using-anti-aliasing))

- Universal RP: Fixed shader stripping when using APV.
    ([UUM-42601](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/baked-lightmaps-are-not-applied-in-the-player))

- URP: Fixed HDR Output can't be turned off via the `HDROutputSettings` API in the editor.
    ([UUM-45838](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-hdr-output-cant-be-turned-off-via-hdroutputsettings-api-in-the-editor))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue with the wrong size used for updates in strips with immortal particles.
    (UUM-46154)

- WebGL: Fixed stripping of functions with long, float, double, ... return value.
    (UUM-44225)<br>
    *First seen in 2023.3.0a1.*

- XR: Fixed Android VideoPlayer crash when using Ycbcr video decoding on some devices.
    (UUM-46315)



### Preview of Final 2023.3.0a5 Release Notes

#### Features

- Editor: Introduced `IRenderPipelineResources` to host SRP resources, which uses the `ResourcePath` to auto-load resources.

- Graphics: Updated the default `IRenderPipelineGraphicsSettings` Inspector to trigger notifications when a value is modified.

- HDRP: Added path tracing support for the Rendering Debugger &gt; Lighting &gt; Material Overrides.

- Package Manager: Improved Project manifest files to repopulate with default dependencies when the files are empty or full of whitespace.

- Universal RP: Added support for foveated rendering in the Forward+ rendering path.

- Universal RP: Added the `8192x8192` option in Shadow textures.

- VFX Graph: VFXG-370 Improve ShaderGraph Cross Pipeline workflow



#### Improvements

- Burst: Added a new `Math.Clamp` API, which is available when the *API Compatibility Level* is set to *.NET Standard 2.1*.

- Burst: Added support for default interface methods.

- Burst: Added support for hashing against different target frameworks.

- Burst: Added support for string interpolation in exception messages.

- Documentation: Added two new workflows to the Timeline Workflows documentation<br>
    - The `Use markers and signals for footsteps` workflow demonstrates how to use Timeline markers, Signal assets, and Signal Receiver components to play audio sources for footsteps.<br>
    - The `Create a Sub-Timeline instance` workflow demonstrates how to create a single cut-scene by nesting a Timeline instance within another Timeline instance.

- DX12: Implemented a dedicated GPU memory allocator for small acceleration structures \(BLASes\) to save GPU memory when using ray tracing.

- DX12: Optimized writing shader records into shader tables before ray tracing dispatches.

- Editor: Data used for preview is released when the baked lightmap preview system is not used for 30 seconds.

- Editor: Implement guard for crash in TimeSliceAwakeFromLoadQueue::IntegrateTimeSliced.
    ([UUM-41509](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-timesliceawakefromloadqueue-integratetimesliced-when-opening-a-scene))

- Editor: Improve exception handling when package load fails.
    ([UUM-16258](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-burstcompilerservice-compileasync-when-opening-project))

- Editor: Improve performance when fetching artifacts that are missing \(e.g link to an artifact deleted from the project\).
    ([UUM-22002](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-animator-window-is-slow-when-displaying-a-blend-tree-with-many-nodes))

- Editor: Improved moving files in the Project window. Moving files in the Project window now takes less memory and is faster.
    ([UUM-44466](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-a-file-to-the-root-assets-directory-of-a-project-causes-large-allocations-and-a-long-hang-which-can-lead-to-a-oom-crash))

- Editor: Improvements to the Graphics Settings UI.

- GI: Changed packing of instances into lightmap atlases to be spatially coherent, and prefer packing instances that are located close to be together.

- GI: Implemented tests which target meta passes without light baking.

- GI: Optimize light baking input extraction by parallelizing surface area calculations.

- Graphics: Added three new `UNITY_DOTS_INSTANCED_PROP` variants to give users more control over DOTS instanced property loading performances.

- Graphics: Improved CPU performance when binding geometry buffers \(i.e. unity_MeshVertexBuffers_RT\) to ray tracing hit shaders

- Graphics: Optimize DOTS instanced properties loading code for URP and HDRP stock shaders.

- HDRP: Avoid clamping to integers for HDR manipulation.
    (UUM-29767)

- HDRP: Following HDRP fixes were made:<br>
    * Support for decals in the Raytracing mode of SSR and SSGI.<br>
    * Changed the value type of *Texture Lod Bias* from integer to float<br>
    * Support debug rendering of decals' light cluster from Window &gt; Rendering Debugger &gt; Fullscreen Debug Mode &gt; LightCluster, Light Category &gt; Decal.<br>
    * Changed the color of the light cluster in the debug view, so that it uses the same color palette as that of tiled lighting.

- HDRP: Improved the performance of the `FrameSettings.Sanitize` method.

- HDRP: Improved water system performances.

- HDRP: Made changes to improve the conversion from string to type for each Custom PP.

- HDRP: Optimize water surface scripting interactions.

- HDRP: Reduced GC Alloc when using raytracing and HDRP.
    ([UUM-40657](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-garbage-collection-issue-with-ray-traced-reflections))

- HDRP: Reduced time taken by default scriptable shader stripping.

- Physics: Improved Physics callback dispatching performance by jobifying the processing of trigger and joint break events and only dispatching events that have their callback implemented.

- Scripting: Reduced noise in logs by setting logging level to 'Debug' in `AssemblyUpdater` when collecting ApiUpdater configurations.
    ([UUM-45511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ioexception-is-triggered-by-apiupdater-when-opening-a-project))

- Shadergraph: Addressed delays related to graph concretization where certain operations were taking longer than expected.

- UI Toolkit: Added support for setting the searchfield placeholder text via UXML.

- UI Toolkit: Added warning for UxmlAttributes in a non UxmlElement class.
    (UIT-2017)

- UI Toolkit: Improved UI Builder performances when using uxml serialization and data bindings.

- UI Toolkit: Updated the bound fields in the UI Builder Inspector so they can be navigated through keyboard events.

- VFX Graph: Improvements to texture types to allow using in branch operators.
    ([UUM-38037](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-branch-node-does-not-accept-texture-input))



#### API Changes

- Editor: Added: Exposed new MenuItem attribute constructor with a path to iconResource.

- Editor: Added: layout field in the DropdownMenuDescriptor to the behavior of the menu when there is a large number of items.

- Editor: Added: `EditorGraphicsSettings.TryGetRenderPipelineSettingsForPipeline` to access settings of other pipelines than the currently active pipeline.

- Editor: Added: `HandleUtility.GetOverlappingObjects` for getting an ordered list of all pickable objects under the give mouse location.

- Editor: Added: `HandleUtility.RegisterRenderPickingCallback` and a few peripheral structures that enables custom rendering-based picking solutions to be developed.

- Editor: Deprecated: `ObjectIdResult.DecodeIdFromColor`. Users are now encouraged to use `HandleUtility.DecodeSelectionId` for decoding and `HandleUtility.EncodeSelectionId` for encoding selection IDs.

- Editor: Obsoleted: Made PropertyCollectionAttribute obsolete. Use PropertAttribute constructor argument applyToCollection to make a collection attribute.

- Graphics: Changed: BatchDrawCommand.visibleCount no longer has to be set to 1 when BatchDrawCommandFlags.HasSortingPosition is set

- Graphics: Changed: HLSL `min16float` variables are now translated to MSL `float` in all CPU visible buffers \(e.g. Constant Buffers, Structured Buffers, Vertex Shader Input\). When accessing these values inside shaders, they are casted to MSL `half` \(16-bit\) for faster arithmetic operations. Any project that uses `min16float` or `half` in shaders and accesses this data as 16-float \(from CPU\) on iOS is incompatible with this change. For these cases, a new `#pragma metal_fxc_allow_float16_in_cpu_visible_buffers` was added so that HLSL `min16float` variables are converted to MSL `half` in all CPU visible buffers \(just like before\).

- Particles: Added: New custom vertex streams: particle index, mesh axis of rotation, and color packed as 2 floats.

- SRP Core: Added: callbacks when RenderPipeline is created or disposed.
    ([UUM-20646](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/srp-constructor-is-called-when-the-scene-has-not-been-loaded))

- UI Toolkit: Added: `disablePlayModeTint` on `VisualElement` to opt-out of playmode tinting. Applies hierarchically so a user could retrieve the `rootVisualElemen`t on an `EditorWindow` to disable playmode tinting entirely on the window.

- Universal RP: Added: Made Main Light Shadow Resolution and Additional Light Shadow Resolution settings public in the URP Asset.

- Universal RP: Added: Made the cascade split settings public in the URP Asset.



#### Changes

- Build Pipeline: Font assets are not stripped from Dedicated Server builds when Dedicated Server Optimizations are enabled.
    ([UUM-713](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/font-data-is-forced-to-be-included-when-building-to-dedicated-server-platform))

- Burst: Disabled Direct call for methods that are decorated with both `[BurstCompile]` and `[UnmanagedCallersOnly]` attributes because such methods shouldn't be called directly from managed code.

- Editor: Accessing Transform data from 'OnDestroy' during an Undo operation is no longer allowed and an error message is logged.
    ([UUM-31100](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transform-is-used-before-awake-or-illegal-transform-access-error-appears-when-accessing-gameobject-transform-from-ondestroy-if-the-gameobject-is-deleted-by-an-undo-operation))

- Editor: Added support for hiding RenderPipelineGraphicsSettings in GraphicsSettings page, persistent Scroll position and persistent active Tab.

- Editor: Reworked the Physics project settings window and converted it to use UI Toolkit.

- Editor: \[Android\] Exceptions for "Unspecified Version" when including Play Libraries have been removed due to the logic changes when fixing Regex for Core-Common.
    ([UUM-44744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-regex-in-checkplaylibraryadded-incorrectly-identifies-play-core-common-libraries))

- Editor: \[Android\] Moved Play Library checks for plugins and gradle dependencies into methods for use in Editor Tests, to avoid building player in every test.
    ([UUM-44744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-regex-in-checkplaylibraryadded-incorrectly-identifies-play-core-common-libraries))

- Graphics: Camera API that wasn't compatible with SRP's now correctly logs warnings/errors where applicable. Alos, updated documentation to reflect SRP capabilities in Camera API.

- HDRP: Added Volumetrics settings to Area lights similar to other light types, to control their influence on volumetric fog when using the path tracer.

- Package: Updated the package version of com.unity.scripting.python to 7.0.1.

- Physics: `OnTriggerEnter` events now have their matching `OnTriggerStay` dispatched after an `OnTriggerEnter` event, rather than wait for all `OnTriggerEnter` events to be dispatched.

- UI: Added *Unsupported MSAA Fallback* in Player settings to specify how to handle cases with unsupported sample counts.
    ([UUM-741](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-2xmsaa-does-not-work-on-mali-devices-when-post-processing-is-enabled))

- Universal RP: Modified the Scene view camera so it now uses the same renderer that `MainCamera` uses in the scene instead of always using Default Renderer.

- URP: Added `RenderGraph` support to URP Samples.

- URP: Vulkan URP will use MSAA samples count fallback from Player settings. Prior to this x2 fallback would have been required upgrade to x4.
    ([UUM-741](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-2xmsaa-does-not-work-on-mali-devices-when-post-processing-is-enabled))



#### Fixes

- 2D: Fixed an issue where a GameObject instantiated by a Tile is recreated on the player when the user refreshes the Tile without changing the Tile.
    ([UUM-45589](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemap-refreshes-gameobjects-when-tile-doesnt-change-when-using-the-player))

- 2D: Fixed an issue where `LineRenderer` and `TrailRenderer` lines were not visible when using URP Sprite materials.
    ([UUM-44445](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-with-line-renderer-components-are-invisible-when-assigning-a-material-with-sprite-unlit-default-shader))

- 2D: Fixed High memory usage and crash on DynamicHeapAllocator::CreateTLSFBlock when opening project with Sprite Atlas V2 enabled.
    ([UUM-43709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/high-memory-usage-and-crash-on-dynamicheapallocator-createtlsfblock-when-opening-project-with-sprite-atlas-v2-enabled))

- 2D: Fixed the *Pixel Perfect Camera* error when scale is set to 0.
    ([UUM-40888](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-failed-on-expression-error-thrown-in-console-when-pixel-perfect-camera-urp-has-scale-set-to-0-on-any-axis))

- 2D: Fixed `FullScreenRenderPass` when using with the Pixel Perfect Camera.
    ([UUM-34852](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/full-screen-pass-renderer-feature-does-not-display-sprites-in-the-game-views-camera-when-pixel-perfect-camera-is-used))

- 2D: Fixed `GfxVersionList::Impl::GetVersion` to no longer crash when opening the *Project*, *Scene*, and *Game* views.
    ([UUM-35341](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gfxversionlist-impl-getversion-when-opening-project-slash-scene-slash-game-view))

- 2D: Fixed `TilemapCollider2D` so it no longer crashes when a tilemap with tiles that have invalid Transform matrices is loaded.
    ([UUM-41396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tilemapcollider2d-processtilechangequeue-when-opening-a-specific-project))

- 2D: Fixes Post Processing and Anti-aliasing during camera stacking when using `Renderer2D`.
    ([UUM-40770](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/post-processing-behaves-differently-when-used-on-different-cameras))

- Accessibility: Fixed issue with creating new AccessibilityNodes when the hierarchy was already active.
    (UUM-48004)

- Accessibility: Replaced the broken `AccessibilityNode.extraData` API with `AccessibilityNode.hint` and made `AccessibilityNode.selected` an event.
    (UUM-44252)

- Android: Fixed a bug where the Android Player setting *Mute Other Audio Sources* would not mute the audio from another application when the Player starts. There are two cases where another app's audio might not get muted when it should. This could happen if the other app is started before the Unity app or if the other app is played via the Android *quick panel* after the Unity app starts.
    ([UUM-37753](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-muteotheraudiosources-not-muting-background-music-when-starting-the-player))

- Android: Fixed a potential race condition during pause routine, which would cause application to accidentally quit instead of pausing.
    ([UUM-30732](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-race-condition-in-unityplayer-dot-pauseunity-kills-the-process-on-application-pause))

- Android: Fixed an issue that caused custom keystore creation to fail in the Keystore Manager for Android applications.
    (UUM-46300)

- Android: Fixed an issue where *AndroidJavaProxy* cannot find private proxy methods.
    ([UUM-44752](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-androidjavaproxy-cannot-find-a-private-proxy-method-when-button-is-clicked))

- Android: Fixed an issue where a black screen with centred app icon would appear before the splash screen. The black screen is now removed to only display the splash screen.
    ([UUM-41488](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-mobile-a-black-screen-with-a-logo-appears-before-the-splash-screen))

- Android: Fixed an issue where a black screen would appear for a few seconds when returning to the game after a paused state.
    ([UUM-30881](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-a-black-screen-appears-for-a-few-seconds-when-returning-to-the-game-from-the-lock-screen-after-idle-time))

- Android: Fixed an issue where closing the touch screen keyboard incorrectly set `TouchScreenKeyboard.hideInput` to false.
    ([UUM-39642](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/touchscreenkeyboard-dot-hideinput-set-from-true-to-false-when-textfield-is-clicked-in-android-builds))

- Android: Fixed an issue where the Android build system asked for an API level that didn't exist.
    ([UUM-40891](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-unity-prompts-for-an-update-to-api-level-36-when-api-level-34-is-used-to-build-for-android))

- Android: Fixed an issue with `APP_CMD_WINDOW_INSETS_CHANGED` to correctly report for GameActivity when soft keyboard is opened/closed.
    (UUM-47094)

- Android: Fixed Android surface background color when rendering over native UI.
    ([UUM-32877](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-ios-unable-to-display-an-app-over-native-ui-when-built))

- Android: Fixed Input.multiTouchEnabled setter when it's called before any touch event, previously such values would be disregarded since internally there was no touch device available for multiTouch to set to.
    ([UUM-47104](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-input-dot-multitouchenabled-changes-to-true-when-system-overlays-are-called))

- Android: Fixed the `JNI:GetInternetReachability` exception so that it no longer occurs when using APIs like `Application.internetReachability` when running with GameActivity.
    ([UUM-42522](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameactivity-application-dot-internetreachability-doesnt-work))

- Android: Fixed unpatched activity tags in `AndroidManifest`.
    ([UUM-40774](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-player-is-restarted-instead-of-reacting-to-deep-link-when-testing-with-google-oauth-example))

- Android: Fixed `AndroidJavaProxy` to correctly map Null variables \(e.g, empty string\) for reflection search and automatic tests.
    ([UUM-30243](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-androidjavaproxy-call-from-java-to-c-number-fails-when-any-string-parameter-is-null))

- Android: Updated *BouncyCastle* library version from 1.47 to 1.70 to fix security vulnerabilities.
    (UUM-13774)

- Animation: Fixed a memory leak that occurred when opening a scene with a subscene containing animator objects.
    (UUM-40709)

- Animation: Fixed an issue where animation clips with discrete curves \(animating enums\), in Asset Bundles built before Unity 2022, would not load properly.
    ([UUM-40841](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-clips-from-old-asset-bundles-apply-wrong-values-to-enums-when-upgrading-project))

- Animation: Fixed an issue with mask values that occurred in the animation layer mixer when animated values were read from an animation C\# job.
    ([UUM-42174](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/modifying-bones-with-transformstreamhandle-does-not-work-when-the-animationscriptplayable-is-output-to-an-animationlayermixerplayable-and-the-singlelayeroptimization-parameter-is-set-to-false))

- Apple TV: fixed build of generated xcode project with xcode beta.
    ([UUM-44352](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-unable-to-build-any-tvos-project-using-xcode-15-beta))

- Apple TV: Fixed on screen keyboard unresponsive to controller when `Remote.allowExitToHome` is set to false.
    ([UUM-39962](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-16-no-text-navigation-occurs-when-using-controller-driven-text-input))

- Asset Bundles: Fixed an issue where shaders in asset bundles built with older Unity versions treated material keywords as invalid when using `SubShaders`.

- Asset Pipeline: Accelerator settings accessors check for null settings ptr.
    ([UUM-46142](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-failed-on-expression-s-editorsettings-equals-null-when-exiting-the-editor-with-accelerator-active))

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed an issue where a transient artifact was not destroyed when a script asset had GUID changed.
    (UUM-41123)

- Audio: Added lazy `loopEnd` evaluation to avoid keeping a value of 0. Downloaded audio files were were not updating this, causing a division by zero in the playback process.
    ([UUM-32163](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-a-mp3-audio-clip-downloaded-through-unitywebrequestmultimedia-dot-getaudioclip-cant-be-replayed))

- Audio: Fixed an issue where non-streaming audio clips loaded through UnityWebRequest were using up more memory than needed by keeping two copies of the same data.
    ([UUM-2391](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-non-streaming-audio-clips-loaded-from-unitywebrequest-retain-file-reference-after-unloading))

- Audio: Fixed Audio Reverb Zone's not being affected by the *Global Volume* setting when the *Spatial Blend* of the *Audio Source* is lower than 1.
    ([UUM-18191](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-reverb-zone-is-not-affected-by-the-global-volume-setting-when-the-spatial-blend-of-the-audio-source-is-lower-than-1))

- Audio: Fixed the mixer pitch issue not applying correctly to `AudioRandomContainer` scheduling.
    ([UUM-43495](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/arc-playback-timing-is-not-working-with-mixer-pitch))

- Build Pipeline: Fixed an issue that generated incorrect AssetBundle dependencies.
    ([UUM-43175](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-assetbundle-dependencies-are-generated))

- Build Pipeline: Fixed AssetBundle incremental build so that it detects script namespace and assembly changes.
    ([UUM-35766](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetbundle-incremental-build-needs-to-detect-script-namespace-slash-assembly-change))

- Build System: clang fails when header file mtimes are updated and a precompiled header isn't regenerated.
    (UUM-44429)

- Build System: Fixed pigz-mac-aarch64 artifact which previously was a linux binary.
    ([UUM-42368](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pigz-mac-aarch64-slash-2-dot-6-9ff9290d6c66-dot-dot-dot-is-a-linux-binary))

- Build System: Make MsvcInstallationLocator.ParseVSWhereResult accept input with a BOM.

- Burst: Fixed a bug where Burst would emit errors when Burst was disabled via the `--burst-disable-compilation` command line option.

- Burst: Fixed a compile-time performance regression that could result in slower Burst compilation and increased memory use during compilation.

- Burst: Fixed a compiler crash that would occur when compiling different assemblies that define methods or types with an identical name and namespace.

- Burst: Fixed a crash that would occur when Burst could not find an external function.

- Burst: Fixed an error that would occur when trying to use a direct call to a nested protected class.

- Burst: Fixed an issue that prevented jobs from being Burst compiled for player builds using the high stripping level.

- Burst: Fixed an issue when converting a `uint` to a `float`.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where Burst sometimes returned an incorrect value for static readonly fields or static constructors.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where converting a negated unsigned type to a float in Burst would produce a different value than converting in .Net/Mono.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where storing avx2 to the stack resulted in a slot with the wrong alignment.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where the Burst Inspector would handle negation of unsigned types differently than .Net for static readonly fields or static constructors.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where using the Armv9 target in the Burst Inspector would not correctly format the assembly.

- Burst: Fixed an issue where, if a compilation error occurred in a location without valid debug information, building a player might not generate any files and wouldn't display an error message.

- Burst: Fixed incorrect alignment for v128 when performing an indirect access.

- Burst: Fixed `System.NotImplementedException: Unimplemented Instruction Extension Tail_` error when the code contained tail-calls.

- Core: Fixed an issue that caused the Jobs project to fail when `EditModeAndPlayMode/Jobs` is run over three times.
    (UUM-40042)

- Core: Fixed an issue where importing a hybrid package could fail if there was already a package with a prefix of the hybrid package's UPM package name.
    ([UUM-43102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-a-custom-package-fails-when-the-beginning-of-the-name-collides-with-another-package))

- Core: Fixed an issue where object creation was recorded on a non-main thread which caused a nullptr in the ObjectDispatcher.

- Core: Fixed the wizard so it does not ask to upgrade when an upgrade is not required.

- Core: Updated `ForEach` jobs to no longer allocate internal data using the `TempJob` allocator to prevent leaks specific to warnings for long-running jobs.
    ([UUM-45532](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/runtime-navmesh-update-leaks-jobtemp-memory))

- Documentation: Updated the *Applying default presets to Assets by folder* documentation example to prevent an import infinite loop error.
    ([UUM-44046](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/projects-are-not-opening-due-to-an-infinite-loop-when-a-script-with-the-onpreprocessasset-function-from-the-documentation-is-present))

- DX12: Fixed "ReleaseDynamicVBOFrame: Unexpected frame".<br>
    Explanation: TryDequeue was not being used properly internally, which would cause wrong frame dequeues and a frame mistach id.
    ([UUM-28962](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/releasedynamicvboframe-unexpected-frame-errors-thrown-in-the-console-window-when-creating-a-project-using-3d-sample-scene-hdrp-template))

- DX12: Fixed a rare crash when using ray traced reflections in HDRP.
    (UUM-41580)

- DX12: Fixed an issue where sub meshes were invisible in ray tracing effects on AMD GPUs.
    ([UUM-44073](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raytracing-some-sub-meshes-are-not-rendered-as-expected-in-ray-tracing-effects-on-amd-gpus))

- Editor: Added a fix to prevent log warnings from appearing when a Progress is registered.
    (UUM-39631)

- Editor: Added a tooltip for all properties in the Search auto complete dialog to have the complete property name.
    ([UUM-35583](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-query-block-text-doesnt-fit-when-navigating-to-it))

- Editor: Added a top-level memory scope to prevent temporary memory leak.
    (UUM-39899)

- Editor: Added a warning for when the Editor doesn't have screen recording permissions to pick colors from other apps with the color picker tool.
    (UUM-770)

- Editor: Added an inspector option to remove unused properties.
    (UUM-39647)

- Editor: Added horizontal scrolling to the Windows Editor when holding the Shift key and scrolling with a mouse.

- Editor: Added support to foldouts bound to `SerializedProperty.isExpanded` to open all child foldouts when you hold the Alt key and select the foldout.
    ([UUM-36151](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-list-field-doesnt-expand-slash-collapse-when-clicking-on-it-while-holding-the-option-button))

- Editor: Added support to make newly created `ScriptableSingleton` instances editable.
    ([UUM-40767](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-scriptablesingletons-hideflags-on-its-awake-or-onenable-is-ignored-when-the-serialized-file-does-not-exist))

- Editor: Allow searching for values in Query Builder propositions in camelcase.
    ([UUM-42254](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-windows-become-invisible-when-rearranging-editor-layout))

- Editor: Appended numbers to shortcut profiles with the default name "New profile" to differentiate them from each other.
    ([UUM-35742](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shortcuts-user-gets-profile-already-exists-validation-during-default-profile-creation-workflow))

- Editor: Changed lens flare behavior to ignore Camera Culling Masks.
    ([UUM-44191](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lens-flares-ignore-camera-culling-masks))

- Editor: Changed the behaviour of the Rendering Layer Mask option UnusedLayer31 to select all layers except UnusedLayer31.
    ([UUM-29344](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/everything-and-unused-layer-31-layers-are-selected-when-deselecting-the-unused-layer-31-layer-if-everything-is-set-in-the-rendering-layer-mask-dropdown-menu))

- Editor: Fixed a bug that caused a font asset to be recreated with every domain reload.
    ([UUM-32171](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-dot-nonstreamingtexturememory-is-increased-each-time-when-entering-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed a bug that caused a warning to display in Visual Studio 2022 about `Unity.UIToolkit.SourceGenerator.UxmlSerializedDataGenerator`.
    ([UUM-41432](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-cs8032-an-instance-of-analyzer-unity-dot-uitoolkit-dot-sourcegenerator-dot-uxmlserializeddatagenerator-cannot-be-created-is-printed-in-error-list-when-using-visual-studio-2022))

- Editor: Fixed a bug that caused the Sprite preview to not display after exiting PLay mode in a project with URP.
    ([UUM-41498](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-previews-are-missing-in-the-editor-when-urp-is-installed))

- Editor: Fixed a bug that prevented `ProjectCapabilityManager.AddGameCenter()` from adding the required entitlement.
    ([UUM-44172](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-center-entitlement-is-not-added-to-xcode-when-using-projectcapabilitymanager-dot-addgamecenter))

- Editor: Fixed a bug where pressing the `RenderDoc` capture button in the Game view dock would incorrectly throw errors.
    ([UUM-45877](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pressing-the-capture-button-causes-errors-when-using-renderdoc-in-the-game-view))

- Editor: Fixed a bug where the *Edit Collider* button was missing from the GameObject property window for specific selection criteria.
    (UUM-33811)

- Editor: Fixed a bug where the variant Inspector context was not disabled after being disabled.
    (UUM-44331)

- Editor: Fixed a crash issue that occured when importing large FBX files.
    ([UUM-38104](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-anonymous-namespace-convertfbxshapes-when-importing-an-fbx-file))

- Editor: Fixed a crash issue with` AudioMixer.SetFloat` that occured when entering the Play mode.
    ([UUM-35984](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-audiomixercontroller-setfloat-when-entering-the-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that occured when scrolling through context menus with the auto expand delay set to 0.
    ([UUM-36604](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-context-menus-editor-crashes-during-the-scrolling-through-the-menu-when-context-menu-auto-expand-delay-set-to-0))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that occurred in deleted GameObjects as overrides.
    ([UUM-45217](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-destroyremovedgameobjects-when-opening-a-specific-scene))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that occurred when loading certain corrupted scenes.
    ([UUM-43713](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mergeallprefabinstancesduringload-when-opening-a-specific-scene))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that would occur when the `memorysetup-job-temp-allocator-block-size` property was unaligned to the power of 2.
    ([UUM-42428](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-allocator-crash-when-opening-a-project))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that would occur when trying to reopen a project that has Package Manager resolution errors.
    (UUM-43054)

- Editor: Fixed a crash when baking lightmaps with light cookies smaller than 32x32.
    ([UUM-43149](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-texturequadtree-reserve-when-generating-lighting))

- Editor: Fixed a GPU crash on some platforms using `HLSLcc` when sampling probe volumes in the pixel shader in URP.
    (UUM-40621)

- Editor: Fixed a issue that caused tooltips on a disabled `MenuItem` to not work.

- Editor: Fixed a issue where rich text was not rendering in `EditorGUILayout.HelpBox`.
    (UUM-44245)

- Editor: Fixed a race condition in Profiler Recorder which led to a crash.
    ([UUM-44946](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-profiling-profilermanager-disposeprofilerrecorder-when-editor-is-in-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed a rare deadlock that could occur when building DOTS based projects.
    ([UUM-46148](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deadlock-when-building-player-in-dots-project))

- Editor: Fixed alignment issues with the Label and Value fields when editing `LazyLoadReference` and `MinMaxGradient` fields.
    (UUM-29883)

- Editor: Fixed an issue for macOS where maniulating the game view during Play Mode caused deadlocks.

- Editor: Fixed an issue in Frame Debugger where the Editor would  crash when it retrieved keywords for a custom Compute Shader.
    ([UUM-33301](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-keywords-localspace-find-when-opening-frame-debugger-with-a-compute-shader-in-the-scene))

- Editor: Fixed an issue in Frame Debugger where the Event Sliders and Buttons didn't update the window properly.
    ([UUM-37778](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/while-in-the-play-mode-the-game-view-is-updated-irregularly-when-in-the-frame-debugger-window-draw-calls-are-changed-by-using-the-slider-or-arrow-buttons))

- Editor: Fixed an issue in FrameDebugger that caused incorrect font sizes in the tree view to display.
    ([UUM-30317](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-has-different-from-the-other-editor-windows-font-size))

- Editor: Fixed an issue in the Editor window so it now minimizes correctly after being clicked on in the Windows taskbar.
    ([UUM-44284](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-minimizes-for-a-moment-and-returns-to-its-initial-state-when-clicking-on-it-in-the-windows-taskbar))

- Editor: Fixed an issue on macOS and Linux where the control shortcut modifier \(^\)  was not displaying when introduced inside a custom menu window.
    ([UUM-40686](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-custom-menu-does-not-display-shortcut-modifier-when-the-shortcut-has-the-control-modifier))

- Editor: Fixed an issue that caused the context menu to break when overriding auto expand delay setting to no delay.
    ([UUM-41764](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/context-menu-argumentnullexception-is-sometimes-thrown-when-hovering-over-menu-items))

- Editor: Fixed an issue that caused the Editor to freeze after selecting large compressed cubemaps with no mipchain.
    ([UUM-28610](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/long-loading-time-when-selecting-a-cubemap-texture-with-generate-mipmaps-disabled))

- Editor: Fixed an issue that truncated a warning message in UIBuilder.
    (UUM-40427)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where 2D collider gizmos were not rendered when selecting the parent.
    ([UUM-41829](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/child-gameobjects-containing-box-collider-2d-do-not-display-collider-borders-in-the-scene-view-when-the-parent-is-selected))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where a delay and an extra space could occur on a new context menu.
    ([UUM-40254](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/context-menu-ubuntu-a-delay-in-drawing-the-menu-can-sometimes-be-observed))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where context menus could persist after domain reload if they were opened just before the reload.
    (UUM-36954)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Dirty Assets were not being duplicated in the Project window.
    (UUM-41536)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Frame Debugger captures can become unstable.

- Editor: Fixed an issue where screen space reflection debug lines did not appear
    (HDRP-3060)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where some context menu items would send the Editor application window to the background.
    (UUM-37286)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the default value of the *Compress Textures on Import* setting was changed.
    (UUM-41982)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Editor height would shrink when changing the layout.
    (UUM-30875)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the `Add Component` context menu button in the scene view incorrrectly threw errors.
    (UUM-36296)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where `Allocator.Temp` memory would internally deallocate memory aggressively and result in temp memory performance regressions.<br>
    Fixed an issue where flushing on the main thread would cause memory stomp using `Allocator.Temp`.
    ([UUM-45113](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-vr-template-is-loading))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where `ManagedTempMemScope` was not always correctly created on job worker threads, which could lead to errors being thrown when using `Allocator.Temp`.
    ([UUM-45483](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/top-level-scope-allocation-is-permitted-only-on-the-main-thread-dot-error-thrown-when-using-allocator-dot-temp))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with *HelpBox* not parsing escape sequence correctly.
    ([UUM-40338](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspector-warning-message-shows-escape-sequence))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with Frame Debugger to prevent textures from leaking when inspecting shadowmaps.
    ([UUM-32862](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-continuously-allocating-ram-when-looking-at-shadows-dot-rendershadowmap))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the *Colors Inspector* window, where the `DrawAAPolyLine` method modified the source color values.
    (UUM-7840)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the Check for Updates window displayed in the *Window &gt; Panels* dropdown menu even when it's meant to be closed.
    ([UUM-26519](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/window-panels-view-displays-check-for-updates-window-as-opened-when-its-closed))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the derived components not indexing in Prefabs properly.
    ([UUM-41735](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-indexing-doesnt-index-derived-component-type-base-types))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the GameView warning message overlapping the toolbar.
    ([UUM-32297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/display-no-cameras-rendering-ui-overlaps-when-resizing-the-project-window))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the Windows Player where an incorrect resolution is used and reported by `Screen.width` and `Screen.height.` This occurred when the player was started on a monitor with different DPI settings compared to the main Windows monitor.
    ([UUM-41799](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-window-resolution-is-slightly-skewed-when-using-multiple-displays-and-one-of-them-has-a-different-scaling-value))

- Editor: Fixed Camera.GetStereoEnabled\(\) to return true only if the camera is rendering a stereo view.
    ([UUM-47881](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-camera-dot-stereoenabled-returns-true-for-all-cameras-if-xr-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed Color Space so it no longer triggers an incorrect RenderTexture warning when you change color space.
    (UUM-16386)

- Editor: Fixed compute shaders in Vulkan so you can now use reserved GLSL words as buffer variable names.
    ([UUM-41272](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-using-glsl-reserved-words-fail-to-compile-when-using-vulkan-graphics-api))

- Editor: Fixed CPU architecture in the plugin inspector resetting after applying changes.
    (UUM-45756)

- Editor: Fixed crashes in the menu controller that happened during a domain reload.
    ([UUM-34847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-on-disconnectgtksignal-void-star-gtkcallbackresponse-star-void-star-when-going-through-microgame-tutorials), UUM-35943)

- Editor: Fixed creating and cloning new VolumeProfiles through the Global Settings UI so that it no longer creates an empty asset on disk.
    (UUM-45909)

- Editor: Fixed dialogs in Windows so new line characters work correctly.
    ([UUM-42521](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/save-dialog-text-is-missing-line-break))

- Editor: Fixed il2cpp builds on macOS and iOS with Xcode 15b6 or newer.

- Editor: Fixed issue that could cause modal windows to be blank when opened.
    ([UUM-927](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/backport-macos-modal-window-is-blank-when-opened))

- Editor: Fixed issue where `StateMachineBehaviour` messages did not send when they were used on Animator Controller Override sync layers.
    ([UUM-41684](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/statemachinebehaviour-messages-dont-fire-when-used-on-animator-controller-override-layers))

- Editor: Fixed low CPU performance issues with entities.graphics/BRG, Vulkan, and large batches of similar meshes.
    ([UUM-33174](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/entities-graphics-renderpipelinemanager-dot-dorenderloop-internal-has-slow-performance-on-android-devices))

- Editor: Fixed ObjectField label not updating when assigning a null value through the Inspector window.
    ([UUM-27629](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/component-icon-does-not-clear-when-serialized-field-is-changed-to-none))

- Editor: Fixed offset of camera position when using the light placement tool.
    (UUM-47863)

- Editor: Fixed potential graphics driver crash when DrawLines is called with an odd number of points.
    ([UUM-39498](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-il2cpp-dedicated-server-crashes-when-calling-socket-dot-send))

- Editor: Fixed shader compilation so DXIL files no longer have an unneeded 38-byte header when Unity compiles shaders for DX12.
    ([UUM-37067](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dx12-shaderdata-dot-variantcompileinfo-dot-shaderdata-contains-38-extra-bytes-on-directx-12))

- Editor: Fixed the 3D texture preview window in the Editor so volumetric previews of 3D textures now work in DX12 and Vulkan.
    ([UUM-39954](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/volumetric-rendering-display-is-not-displayed-when-selecting-texture3d))

- Editor: Fixed the Editor on macOS so it no longer presents old frames.
    (UUM-3147)

- Editor: Fixed the error message that appeared when binding a shortcut with an invalid key.
    ([UUM-43122](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-windows-button-is-referred-to-as-leftapple-in-the-error-message-when-trying-to-assign-it-as-a-shortcut))

- Editor: Fixed the Game view so it no longer flickers to black in Play mode on macOS.
    ([UUM-19574](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ventura-silicon-game-slash-scene-view-flickers-when-entering-the-play-mode-with-vsync-on))

- Editor: Fixed the helper bar so it is visible after exiting Play mode.
    ([UUM-28357](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/helper-bar-doesnt-appear-when-scene-view-is-refocused-after-exiting-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed the issue with macOS deadlocking in the Editor when leaving the *Play* mode.

- Editor: Fixed the issue with the file icon missing in the Inspector window when selecting multiple assets in the Project window.
    ([UUM-34440](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/file-icon-is-missing-in-the-inspector-window-when-selecting-multiple-assets-in-the-project-window))

- Editor: Fixed the issue with `AsyncOperation.allowSceneActivation` being ignored when refocusing the Editor.
    ([UUM-31366](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asyncoperation-dot-allowsceneactivation-is-ignored-when-refocusing-editor))

- Editor: Fixed the order of available Editor tools in the Scene view tools toolbar.
    (UUM-42846)

- Editor: Fixed the Search Window to always reflect the state of the `searchQueryAssets` in the Project.
    ([UUM-41173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-query-asset-is-not-on-the-project-list-in-the-search-window-if-it-was-duplicated))

- Editor: Fixed the Shader Variant Loading settings in Player settings so the Editor no longer crashes if you set the chunk size to 0.
    ([UUM-36663](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-subprogramblobwriter-flush-when-building-a-project))

- Editor: Fixed the shortcut profiles order to display alphabetically.
    ([UUM-34461](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shortcuts-saved-profiles-are-not-grouped-alphabetically))

- Editor: Fixed the UsePass ShaderLab command so it searches all subshaders, not only the first one.
    ([UUM-36470](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/usepass-doesnt-reference-passes-within-another-shaders-second-subshader))

- Editor: Fixed the `ExecuteInEditMode` warning that displays when entering playmode so that it fits in a dialog box.
    (UUM-44500)

- Editor: Fixed tooltips for mipmap limit groups so they accurately describe limit offset uploads.
    (UUM-41881)

- Editor: Fixed Update Probe Validity so it works after an Editor restart.
    (UUM-42961)

- Editor: Fixed `AnimationWindowCurve` evaluation error after step.
    ([UUM-30927](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/modified-animation-position-dot-y-value-frame-is-misplaced))

- Editor: Fixed `AnimationWindowCurve` evaluation error after step.
    ([UUM-31316](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fbx-animation-results-in-different-frame-keys-when-imported-from-maya))

- Editor: Fixed `BuildOptions.ShowBuiltPlayer` to now work on Windows machines when the player build path contains ".." as the parent directory.
    ([UUM-40467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wrong-directory-is-opened-when-buildoptions-dot-showbuiltplayer-is-used))

- Editor: Improved handling of saving a Scene created from `MyTemplate`.
    ([UUM-42427](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-extension-required-extension-is-dot-scenetemplate-dot-warning-is-thrown-when-creating-a-new-scene-from-a-scene-template-that-has-a-prefab))

- Editor: Improved performance when saving Prefabs.
    ([UUM-31437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/long-prefab-save-times-when-using-unity-2022-dot-2-and-higher))

- Editor: Improved the *Scene Template* options to look consistent in the Inspector window.
    ([UUM-31080](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fields-in-scene-template-pipeline-section-look-messy))

- Editor: In Project Settings, under the Time heading, the Fixedstep value is now rounded to 4 significant digits.
    ([UUM-43331](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fixed-timestep-is-set-to-0-dot-01999999-by-default-in-project-settings))

- Editor: Increased the Undo buffer maximum size to prevent 'Failed to create Object Undo, because the action is too large' error in console.
    ([UUM-19657](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-failed-to-create-object-undo-because-the-action-is-too-large-is-thrown-when-deleting-a-large-gameobject))

- Editor: Inspector windows are now rebuilt correctly if `ModelImporter.SaveAndReimport()` is called from another window.
    ([UUM-41835](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dirty-asset-import-settings-are-not-applied-when-using-modelimporter-dot-saveandreimport-method))

- Editor: Made it possible to select text in Windows Editor dialog windows to support copy and paste.
    (UUM-41283)

- Editor: Modified Asset info \(labels and asset bundle\) so that it is shown, but in a disabled state, when the asset is not checked out in Perforce.
    ([UUM-36500](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-label-ui-is-not-visible-in-the-inspector-when-version-control-mode-is-set-to-perforce))

- Editor: Modified dynamic resolution to be consistent across all platforms and use discrete scale factors in a range between 0.25 and 1.0 and in increments of 0.05.

- Editor: Modified the Shortcut Window so it opens as a regular window that can be docked in the Editor or float behind the main window.
    (UUM-28944)

- Editor: Prevented blendshape normals calculation when a mesh normal is set to Calculate and blendshape normals is set to None.
    ([UUM-36071](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blend-shape-normals-are-included-when-normals-are-set-to-calculate-and-blend-shape-normals-to-none))

- Editor: Removed an internal error message that appeared in the console in certain scenarios.
    ([UUM-33746](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/failed-to-unpersist-error-is-not-informative-when-trying-to-modify-prefab-in-runtime))

- Editor: Removed the transparent input field that showed above the `TouchScreenKeyboard` when `TouchScreenKeyboard.hideInput` is active.
    ([UUM-37652](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-clicks-on-the-hidden-zone-remain-blocked-when-touchscreenkeyboard-is-active))

- Editor: Removed the `scrollview` in the New Scene dialog to fix an issue with the Scene template.
    ([UUM-40806](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-template-selected-scene-item-is-not-fully-selected-and-presented-in-the-selection-background))

- Editor: Reverted a breaking change related to `IGraphEventListener`.

- Editor: Reverted a breaking change where `LudiqScriptableObject._` data was marked as private.

- Editor: The stage priority for Sprite renderer and Canvas renderer now correctly updates the value.
    ([UUM-35594](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-canvas-component-corrupts-gameobject-rendering-when-ui-environment-is-set-to-the-scene-that-has-this-prefab))

- Editor: \[Android\] Fixed Regex that checks for Play Libraries to avoid errors when using Core-Common libraries instead of only Play Core errors as expected. Regex now expects a series of digits/dots after the term "core" to avoid the confusion.
    ([UUM-44744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-regex-in-checkplaylibraryadded-incorrectly-identifies-play-core-common-libraries))

- GI: Added a Null check to the default LSA asset name when cloning it through the Lighting Window.
    ([UUM-30963](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/createasset-should-not-be-used-to-create-a-file-of-type-error-is-thrown-when-cloning-lighting-settings-asset-two-times))

- GI: Avoid modifying the built-in default Lighting Data Asset when baking Reflection Probes from the Inspector.
    (UUM-46158)

- GI: Fixed a crash caused by invalid data in lighting data assets.
    ([UUM-27652](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-lightingdataasset-checkconsistency-when-importing-assets))

- GI: Fixed a memory leak that would occur when a bake was cancelled.
    ([UUM-41988](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-probe-gpu-memory-is-not-deallocated-when-cancelling-a-bake))

- GI: Improved the speed of cancelling light baking for scenes with many probes.
    (UUM-38112)

- GI: Updated *Lightmap Resolution* tooltip description with more details of its effects and how it affects the resolution of albedo and emission textures.

- Graphics: Changed the callback dispatch to a single pass. Now Unity batches all updates together, and only makes a call to a managed job once if there are changes to notify the user about.

- Graphics: Fixed 2D texture arrays so they no longer cause a NullReferenceException if you select them in a project or the Frame Debugger.
    ([UUM-43574](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-when-selecting-a-texture2darray))

- Graphics: Fixed a crash or memory leak that happened when procedural geometries inside an axis-aligned bounding box \(AABB\) existed in a RayTracingAccelerationStructure.
    (UUM-43293)

- Graphics: Fixed a crash that happened when destroying a RayTracingAccelerationStructure that was declared as a static member in a C\# class.
    ([UUM-42135](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raytracing-crash-when-the-player-is-closed))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue where distance culling without a camera was using a non-zero initial position, which resulted in an error.

- Graphics: Fixed an issue where maxComputeBufferInputs clamped to its default value when VkPhysicalDeviceLimits::maxPerStageDescriptorStorageBuffers was a max unsigned integer.
    ([UUM-43741](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-maxcomputebufferinputs-limits-get-slashed-when-device-property-is-max-uint))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue where the culling mode was incorrectly reset for distance-only culling, which resulted in errors.

- Graphics: Fixed an issue with synchronizing speed-up backend data and serialized data for `IRenderPipelineGraphicsSettings` when the `RenderPipelineGlobalSettings` asset is edited outside the Editor.
    (XPIPELINE-795)

- Graphics: Fixed asynchronous scene loads so they no longer leak texture memory.
    ([UUM-35265](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-when-using-texture-streaming-asynchronous-scene-loading-and-vulkan))

- Graphics: Fixed cubemap textures on OpenGL ES so that when they're copied, the edges are no longer blurry.
    (UUM-45754)

- Graphics: Fixed empty VVL errors when an old VK_EXT_debug_report extension were used.
    (UUM-37283)

- Graphics: Fixed GraphicsBuffers so they no longer crash the Vulkan and OpenGL graphics APIs if you set the wrong GraphicsBuffer.Target.
    ([UUM-42421](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-databuffergles-copysubdata-when-entering-the-play-mode-and-opengl-or-opengl-es-graphics-api-is-used))

- Graphics: Fixed multisample anti-aliasing \(MSAA\) so it falls back to the same sample count, no matter which API you use.

- Graphics: Fixed null pointer exception on the player when none of the quality levels were assigned.
    (UUM-43265)

- Graphics: Fixed shadows so they no longer cause a crash in a scene with both Built-In Render Pipeline and Scriptable Render Pipeline materials.
    ([UUM-46685](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gfxdevice-executeasync-when-light-source-shadows-are-enabled-with-builtin-and-srp-materials-in-the-scene-with-the-default-scriptable-render-pipeline))

- Graphics: Fixed stencil information display error under camera depthNormals mode
    ([UUM-27513](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/displayed-depth-buffer-doesnt-work-in-customrender-and-depthnormalstexture-passes))

- Graphics: Fixed the display position of the Game view for some less common multi-monitor layouts.
    ([UUM-33795](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-dot-movemainwindowto-misbehaves-when-window-is-windowed-and-spans-several-monitors))

- Graphics: Fixed the error 'The transcoded bitstream was invalid' that happened when using Streaming Virtual Texturing \(SVT\).
    (UUM-41518)

- Graphics: Fixed the mipmap streaming system so it correctly calculates mipmap levels if the texture scale property of a material changes at runtime.
    ([UUM-31184](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-mipmap-streaming-uses-wrong-scales-after-materials-are-changed-at-runtime))

- Graphics: Fixed the MRT Clear command so it now works correctly on the Vulkan graphics API if you clear render targets with different colors.
    (UUM-46866)

- Graphics: Fixed the texture Inspector window so it no longer throws errors due to it incorrectly reading native cubemap textures.
    ([UUM-22094](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-registering-a-native-texture-with-depth-equals-0-while-the-actual-texture-has-depth-equals-1-is-thrown-when-in-play-mode-and-creating-a-cubemap-from-another-cubemaps-native-texture))

- Graphics: Fixed Vulkan rendering when viewport or scissor rectangle has negative offset.
    ([UUM-39970](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-the-gameobject-isnt-rendered-when-rect-x-position-in-commandbuffer-dot-setviewport-is-less-than-0-dot-5))

- Graphics: Flagged GlobalSettingsAsset as unsaved \(dirty\) when it is modified through `IRenderPipelineGraphicsSettings.SetValueAndNotify`.
    (UUM-43279)

- Graphics: Improved *Always/Vertex* pass to be accepted by the `ForwardRenderer` loop and receive the main light's screenspace shadowmap.
    (UUM-36912)

- Graphics: Improved an error message about SkinnedMeshRenderer mesh compatibility.
    (UUM-46329)

- Graphics: Updated documentation to reflect camera distance calculation is coupled with camera.
    ([UUM-12523](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cullinggroup-onstatechanged-is-not-called-when-there-is-no-targetcamera))

- HDRP: Added a warning to the reflection probe editor to prevent a user from baking in a low quality level.
    (UUM-41531)

- HDRP: Added behavior to enable or disable HDR during run time.
    (UUM-29770)

- HDRP: Changed lens flare behavior to use the camera culling mask and the GameObject layer.
    (HDRP-3062)

- HDRP: Enabled HDR output for macOS.

- HDRP: Fixed a black spot caused by a point light under a water surface

- HDRP: Fixed a GraphicsBuffer leak in APV binding code.

- HDRP: Fixed a hole in water geometry.

- HDRP: Fixed a performance reduction caused by MemClear calls on large frame buffers in HDRP PrepareLightsForGPU.

- HDRP: Fixed a potential GPU crash/hang when using local volumetric fogs.
    (HDRP-3051)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue for macOS where passing the Probe Volumes buffer an unexpected stride caused a crash.
    (UUM-41474)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue so that the water inspector appears correctly when no SRP is active
    ([UUM-40843](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-surface-component-overlaps-in-inspector-and-nullreferenceexeptions-in-console-when-default-render-pipeline-asset-is-none))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue so that volumetric cloud wind works with realtime Reflection probes.
    ([UUM-37387](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-realtime-reflection-probe-makes-volumetrics-clouds-wind-stop))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where prefab previews would be rendered too dark until they move.
    ([UUM-42162](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-model-material-in-the-inspector-preview-is-only-displayed-correctly-when-the-model-is-rotated))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where the Bloom Mip Bias in a Screen Space Lens Flare overwrote the original Bloom mip map.
    (UUM-45060)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where the material preview texture was the incorrect size.
    ([UUM-31221](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-material-preview-field-doesnt-get-filled-in-the-inspector-when-making-changes-to-the-material-emission-settings))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where water deformation wasn't visible in wireframe mode

- HDRP: Fixed Helpbox UI for LightProbeGroup Inspector.
    (UUM-47718)

- HDRP: Fixed material previews being rendered black.
    ([UUM-29305](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/material-thumbnail-is-shown-as-black-when-using-hdrp-slash-lit-shader))

- HDRP: Fixed out of bounds access when XR is enabled.
    (UUM-41445)

- HDRP: Fixed refractive material preview when Multisample anti-aliasing \(MSAA\) is enabled.

- HDRP: Fixed the appearance of water excluders when a camera is underwater
    (UUM-33247)

- HDRP: Fixed the depthstencil buffer so that it binds the correct depthBuffer when refraction is enabled.
    (UUM-37978)

- HDRP: Fixed the size of the helpbox in the LightProbeGroup Inspector.
    (UUM-38113)

- HDRP: Fixed virtual offset on complex geometries.
    (UUM-47308)

- HDRP: Global Settings always exist when HDRP is the current active pipeline.
    (XPIPELINE-796)

- HDRP: Improved performance of infinite water surfaces with tessellation on metal.
    (UUM-47326)

- HDRP: Removed the Render Graph option from the rendering debugger Rendering panel.

- IL2CPP: Fixed a semaphore link in the IL2CPP runtime that could occur during lock contention for multiple threads.
    (UUM-40104)

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue where an ARM64 build would fail when Script Debugging is enabled.
    ([UUM-37939](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/arm64-build-fails-when-script-debugging-is-enabled))

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue where pointer types could be affected by an unsigned shift right.
    ([UUM-41406](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-returns-incorrect-results-when-using-pointer-arithmetic))

- IL2CPP: Fixed build failure when a delegate had a first parameter that was a function pointer.
    ([UUM-44037](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-il2cpp-build-error-occurs-when-method-first-parameter-is-an-unmanaged-delegate))

- IL2CPP: Fixed the offset of properties in Explicit layout structs with `FieldOffset`.
    ([UUM-43158](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/marshal-dot-offsetof-fails-to-calculate-the-correct-offset-of-property-within-explicit-layout-with-fieldoffset))

- IL2CPP: Fixed UnsafeUtililty.IsUnmanaged/UnsafeUtililty.IsBlittable returning incorrect results.
    (UUM-43422)

- iOS: Fixed an issue where launch screen images weren't being included in builds for iOS and tvOS.
    ([UUM-44326](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-images-used-in-relative-and-constant-launch-screens-arent-included-in-the-generated-xcode-build-resulting-in-the-xcode-build-failing))

- iOS: Fixed an issue where the managed debugger window didn't display and froze the application.
    ([UUM-39644](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-app-freezes-and-the-you-can-attach-a-managed-debugger-now-if-you-want-message-doesnt-show-up-when-running-the-app-on-ios-devices-with-the-wait-for-managed-debugger-setting-enabled))

- iOS: Fixed an issue where the multiline keyboard would not appear after it was closed while editing the text field.
    ([UUM-21521](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ipad-keyboard-doesnt-show-up-after-pressing-the-hide-keyboard-button-on-the-multiline-text-field))

- iOS: Fixed crash when having Build Postprocessor run after "Sign in with Apple" Unity Plugin \(AppleSignInUnity\).

- Kernel: Fixed a crash that would occur when reallocating persistent memory with the `DynamicHeapAllocator` to a size greater than 4GB.
    (UUM-12004)

- Linux: Fixed a bug that caused the Editor to get focused when saving script files with Jetbrains Rider.
    ([UUM-36463](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-becomes-focused-when-saving-a-script-file-in-jetbrains-rider))

- Linux: Fixed a bug with surround sound hardware not being detected on Linux. Fixed an issue on Windows where we would not re-init audio output correctly, when the Unity project requested surround sound, and the Editor or player was started with no such hardware available. When surround sound hardware is later enabled and set as the default output, it will now be used.
    ([UUM-348](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-does-not-recognize-surround-sound-driver-capabilities-and-plays-audio-in-stereo))

- Linux: Fixed a minor bug in the `GetOperatingSystemNumeric` Linux API.
    (UUM-45625)

- Linux: Fixed an issue where Linux Player generated mouse delta values when clicking the left mouse button repeatedly.
    ([UUM-46825](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-player-mouse-delta-values-are-generated-when-clicking-the-lmb-repeatedly-while-the-cursor-is-motionless))

- Linux: Fixed an issue with Vulkan falsely reporting that HDR is supported on Linux.
    (UUM-43364)

- Linux: Fixed issue where copying text could replace it with a line break.
    (UUM-40156)

- Linux: Fixed issue where text could be duplicated when pasted into a search field.
    ([UUM-39837](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-text-is-duplicated-when-pasted-into-a-search-field))

- Linux: Fixed perspective changes that are slow when quickly scrolling through the Scene View.
    ([UUM-40326](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-the-perspective-changes-slower-when-quickly-scrolling-in-the-scene-view))

- Linux: Fixed Scroll works when a window is attached to the left half of the secondary monitor.
    ([UUM-43910](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-scroll-doesnt-work-when-a-window-is-attached-to-the-left-half-of-the-secondary-monitor))

- Linux: Improved the Unity player from using excessive CPU when the *Run in the background* option is turned off.
    ([UUM-38092](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-player-consumes-more-cpu-resources-when-it-is-running-in-the-background))

- macOS: Fixed a bug that would cause crashes when creating certain VFX Graphs.
    ([UUM-42943](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-unity-editor-and-build-crashes-on-graphics-device-is-null-when-a-vfx-graph-object-is-created))

- macOS: Fixed a driver issue that happened when the water system was enabled.
    (UUM-47762)

- macOS: Fixed an issue where focussing on a Modal window that opened in front of an application would cause the application to hang.
    ([UUM-22691](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-application-with-file-dialog-freezes-when-switching-windows))

- Mono: Fixed an issue that caused deadlock when taking a memory profiler snapshot.
    (UUM-40688)

- Mono: Fixed issue where blittable flag could be incorrect when it was read before MonoClass was inited.
    (UUM-35682)

- N/A \(internal\): Fixed the Device Simulator Analytics events to call at correct times.
    (UUM-34131)

- Networking: Fixed an issue where virtual methods in DownloadHandlerScript were being stripped.
    ([UUM-34034](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-downloadhandlerscript-doesnt-work-when-a-medium-or-high-stripping-level-is-used))

- Networking: Fixed issue where UnityWebRequest would fail to establish TLS connections with Windows Server 2012 and 2016.
    ([UUM-41557](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unitywebrequest-uses-tlsv1-protocol-during-tls-handshake-instead-of-tlsv1-dot-2-protocol-when-calling-the-unitywebrequest-dot-get-method))

- Package: - Add an argument to LiveStreamCaptureDeviceEditor.DrawDefaultLiveStreamInspector to fix the feature that checks the required components for the camera tracking.<br>
    - LiveStream.Properties now uses a Dictionary instead of an IEnumerable to avoid type casting and boxing issues.

- Package: \[XR\] Updated XR Interaction Toolkit to version 2.4.1.

- Package Manager: Add a scroll control to the package manifest description field in the Inspector window.
    (UUM-42618)

- Package Manager: Added a fix to ignore the `ProjectVersion` file when importing a package to fix the downgrading of the project version.
    (UUM-46086)

- Package Manager: Added a horizontal scrollbar to ensure multi-select buttons are viewable in the Package Manager window.
    ([UUM-45948](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-bulk-action-button-hidden-when-plenty-of-space-to-display))

- Package Manager: Removed warning icons when an asset store download is aborted.
    (UUM-47319)

- Package Manager: Updated the rules to determine the recommended version of a package.
    (UUM-46466)

- Particles: Added Custom Render Queue UI to built-in particle shaders.

- Particles: Fixed a crash that could happen when particle systems with mesh particles were deleted.
    ([UUM-26623](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/addressables-crash-in-transformparticlemesh))

- Particles: Fixed an issue where ParticleSystems playing in Edit mode would continue playing after undoing changes, applying or reverting prefab instances or copy-pasting.
    ([UUM-28514](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-particle-system-is-stopping-after-perfoming-the-undo-slash-redo-action))

- Particles: Fixed particles flickering on Vulkan.
    ([UUM-21106](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-visualisation-corruption-occurs-when-rendering-particles-to-render-texture))

- Physics: Fixed a crash that would occur when `WheelCollider.rotationSpeed` called while no Rigidbody was present up the hierarchy.
    ([UUM-47082](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-wheelcollider-getrotationspeed-when-retrieving-the-rotationspeed-property-of-the-wheelcollider))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where Cloth crashed when attempting to bake using a mesh that had duplicate vertices and all the particles pinned.
    ([UUM-34029](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-nv-cloth-fabriccookerimpl-cook-when-entering-play-mode))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where small bodies would tunnel through large bodies in continuous collision detection mode at high simulation frequencies \(~200Hz\).
    ([UUM-19349](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/objects-are-not-colliding-when-time-dot-fixeddeltatime-is-smaller-or-equal-to-5-ms))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where `Joint::axis` could not be initialized during component construction.
    ([UUM-46606](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sometimes-editor-crashes-after-physics-assertions))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where `Rigidbody.freezeRotation` incorrectly added `RigidbodyConstraints.FreezePosition` to the Rigidbody constraint flags.
    ([UUM-44454](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbodys-freeze-position-constraints-get-enabled-when-using-rigidbody-dot-freezerotation-equals-false))

- Physics: Fixed moving child triggers causing parent bodies to recalculate their center of mass.
    ([UUM-30798](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody-recalculates-its-center-of-mass-when-moving-its-child-trigger-collider))

- Physics 2D: Fixed an issue where both Animation Root Motion rotation and Animation Transform rotation did not rotate a Rigidbody2D correctly.
    ([UUM-44297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/collider-rotation-is-not-affected-when-using-the-update-mode-animate-physics-on-the-animator-to-change-the-rotation))

- Physics 2D: Modified `RelativeJoint2D` to show *Angular offset* in degrees instead of radians when *Auto Configuration Offset* is enabled.
    ([UUM-42690](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/angular-offset-for-relativejoint2d-is-displayed-in-radians-when-enabling-auto-configuration-offset))

- Player: Fixed a memory regression issue in Player.
    ([UUM-40679](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-regression-when-loading-asset-bundles-since-2022-dot-2-21f1))

- Prefabs: Fixed a bug that caused the error "Prefab mismatch: The instance object in the scene is referencing a corresponding source object in the Prefab of a different type." to be thrown when an added GameObject was applied to a Prefab.
    ([UUM-36238](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-mismatch-the-instance-object-in-the-scene-is-referencing-a-corresponding-source-object-in-the-prefab-of-a-different-type-dot-thrown-when-applying-added-gameobject-to-a-prefab))

- Prefabs: Fixed a bug where the properties of some children were not being reverted when multi-editing a property under one Prefab instance.
    ([UUM-42527](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/only-the-last-childs-gameobject-property-gets-reverted-when-changing-a-property-of-all-child-gameobjects-under-one-parent-gameobject))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue that caused high CPU usage when more than one Game view was open.
    ([UUM-44719](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/very-high-cpu-and-gpu-usage-when-2-game-views-are-visible-at-the-same-time))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where shader dispatch events did not show up in the GameView RenderDoc capture data.
    ([UUM-29955](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-dispatch-event-is-not-captured-when-using-renderdoc))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where the *Add* button in the GameView's Resolution Size menu was slightly obscured.
    ([UUM-42590](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-resolution-button-in-resolution-dropdown-menu-is-obscured-and-has-no-padding-on-the-bottom))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where the curve keyframes context menu would only have the "Add Key" option.
    ([UUM-41464](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/just-the-add-key-option-is-available-when-opening-the-context-menu-of-the-curve-keyframe))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue with `CamerasOverlay` styling when docked in a toolbar and pop-up mode.
    ([UUM-45894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-overlay-is-missing-icons-when-docked))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed the *Edit/Frame Selected* setting not focusing the last active Scene view when the Hierarchy window is focused.
    ([UUM-43944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-scene-view-camera-is-not-being-focused-on-the-selected-gameobject-when-pressing-frame-selected-in-the-menu))

- Scripting: Deprecated `PrefabUtilitiy.InstantiateAttachedAsset`.
    ([UUM-33714](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-typeinfo-for-noncopyable-when-copying-and-pasting-a-nested-prefab-variant))

- Scripting: Fixed a crash that would occur if a coroutine was not persisted when a series of UnityEvents were invoked.
    ([UUM-29293](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-coroutine-invokemovenext-when-series-of-unityevents-are-invoked))

- Scripting: Fixed an issue that prevented scripts from compiling and filing up the Editor logs.
    (UUM-45593)

- Search: Fixed an issue where items with the same name didn't appear when using the Advanced Search Picker.
    ([UUM-43907](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/one-of-the-multiple-assets-with-the-same-name-is-shown-in-the-object-selector-when-using-the-advanced-object-selector))

- Search: Fixed an issue where Search's placeholder texts overlapped and escaped the search field.
    ([UUM-44349](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-search-unity-and-press-tab-overlap-and-text-escapes-search-bar-when-window-width-decreased))

- Search: Fixed Search's "Press Tab to filter" so its icon displays.
    ([UUM-44351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-missing-icon-in-press-tab-to-filter))

- Search: Fixed the *Search saved queries sort* button to display the dropdown with the ordering options that wasn't showing up briefly.
    ([UUM-41038](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-search-sorting-order-button-doesnt-work))

- Serialization: Fixed an Editor crash that occured when creating asset bundle with fully supported inflated types.
    ([UUM-37034](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-typetreequeries-fullyqualifiedtypenameparts-trygetfromreflectiontypestring-when-building-bundles))

- Serialization: Fixed an issue so that the class name of an inflated types does not include the namespace.
    ([UUM-27766](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-core-basic-string-char-core-stringstoragedefault-basic-string-char-core-stringstoragedefault-char-const-star-ptr64-when-using-the-serializable-inflated-generics-feature))

- Serialization: Fixed the `TypeDB` path in `BuildPlayerDataGenerator`.
    ([UUM-28069](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multiple-errors-are-displayed-in-the-player-when-using-serialized-generics))

- Shadergraph: Fixed a regression where adding nodes in large graphs caused a major slowdown.
    (UUM-46770)

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where the Save/Save as hotkeys weren't being caught by the Shader Graph window.

- Shadergraph: Fixed incorrect documentation links from the editor for Custom Interpolators and Property Types.

- Shadergraph: Fixed minor usability issues with Custom Function Nodes.

- Shadergraph: Removed a non-valid character from the name of an imported material sub asset.

- Shaders: Fixed an issue with HLSL to Metal codegen when loading a specific sample index from a Texture2DMSArray.
    (UUM-46480)

- Shaders: Fixed compiling geometry and tessellation shaders for the Vulkan graphics API, so it no longer generates a  "gl_" identifiers error.
    ([UUM-30365](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-generation-on-vulkan-throws-gl-layer-error))

- Shaders: Fixed dynamic shader keywords so they longer create a keyword space mismatch when you use them with UsePass.
    (UUM-44739)

- Shaders: Fixed shader compiling so shaders with the Native16Bit requirement no longer compile with FXC instead of DXC for the Metal graphics API.

- Shaders: Fixed shader importing so it no longer sometimes crashes the Editor.
    ([UUM-42369](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-dynamicheapallocator-allocate-during-importer-consistency-check))

- Shaders: Fixed shader warmup when a scriptable render pipeline initializes in OpenGL. The GPU no longer hangs if you specify a shader preloading asset.
    (UUM-43199)

- Shaders: Fixed the WarmupAllShaders API so it warms up all variants instead of only a single variant per pass.
    (UUM-45992)

- SpeedTree: Fixed popping Level Of Detail \(LOD\) transitions for the `Crossfade` mode for URP.
    (UUM-40046)

- SRP Core: Avoid getting UnityEditor.SceneManagement.PrefabStage with reflection from the static ctor of CoreUtils.
    (UUM-43722)

- SRP Core: Fixed a crash caused by the Volume Profile context menu in the HDRP or URP Asset.
    (UUM-46030)

- SRP Core: Fixed lens flare so that it performs occlusion with a certain Occlusion Offset value when the camera is facing a light
    ([UUM-3984](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lens-flare-does-not-perform-occlusion-with-a-certain-occlusion-offset-value-when-the-camera-is-facing-light))

- SRP Core: Fixed Stripping.meta corrupted metal file.
    ([UUM-46994](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/file-stripping-dot-meta-in-core-srp-si-corrupt))

- SRP Core: When changing the *Global Settings* asset, the UI was not being refreshed to and the old asset was being displayed.
    ([UUM-46874](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rpw-global-settings-pages-crashes-when-changing-the-current-global-settings-asset))

- Terrain: Fixed a player crash when a terrain tile completely made of holes was viewed from a distance.
    ([UUM-45970](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-crashes-when-auto-connect-is-enabled-for-terrains-in-the-terrain-group))

- Terrain: Fixed Terrain shaders for grass and SpeedTree to ensure billboard grass and trees are visible for all depth priming modes.
    ([UUM-31371](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/billboard-grass-is-only-visible-when-depth-priming-mode-is-disabled))

- Test Framework: Fixed an issue where a memory tracking fixture would not print callstacks when used in leak mode.
    (UUM-42432)

- TextCore: Added Nirmala UI font family as the global fallback for Hindi \(Indian language\) script on Windows.

- TextCore: Fixed a bug that caused a crash when upgrading materials.
    (UUM-32513)

- TextCore: Fixed an issue were errors were thrown for incorrectly formatted tags.
    ([UUM-11753](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unicode-character-error-in-console-when-browsing-assets-in-package-manager))

- TextCore: Fixed `FontAsset` menu items.
    (UUM-36040)

- TextMeshPro: Added a fix to ensure `PreferredHeight` handles the line height settings correctly.
    ([TMPB-198](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-ugui-incorrectly-calculating-rect-size-when-using-tag))

- TextMeshPro: Added missing `_ScaleRatioA` to HDRP and URP shaders.
    ([TMPB-169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-the-text-font-style-to-bold-throws-errors-when-using-liberationssans-sdf-material))

- TextMeshPro: Applied a fix to ensure that `PreferredHeight` handles various line height correctly and does not cut off text.
    ([TMPB-165](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textmeshpro-truncate-mode-cuts-off-text-when-using-content-size-fitter))

- TextMeshPro: Ensured that sprites now use the correct indexes.
    ([TMPB-200](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/text-mesh-pro-shows-incorrect-icon))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed a bug that would crash the Editor when upgrading materials.
    ([TMPB-187](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tt-cmap12-char-map-binary-when-the-editor-is-upgrading-urp-materials))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed an issue with Surrounding dropdown not closing correctly in certain situations.
    ([UUM-33691](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-dropdown-will-not-close-when-clicked-outside-of-it))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed the Maskable property so it propagates to SubMesh.
    ([TMPB-191](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/text-is-masked-when-the-maskable-property-is-disabled))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed the TMP Importer window so it does not repeatedly pop up.
    (UUM-41289)

- TextMeshPro: Set the `FaceInfo` setter to public.
    ([TMPB-182](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-fontasset-dot-faceinfo-setter-access-is-internal))

- uGUI: Fixed an issue with Surrounding dropdown not closing correctly in certain situations.

- UI Toolkit: Added a Save Event data in the UI Builder to detect `Uxml Serialization` and `UxmlTraits` custom elements.

- UI Toolkit: Added a warning to display when a UXML file contains more than one `UxmlObject` type defined in a single instance attribute.
    (UIT-1544)

- UI Toolkit: Added an option to the Library's settings that allows you to use a blank VisualElement by default when adding from the Library.
    ([UUM-19254](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-visualelement-has-set-flex-grow-and-background-color-default-inline-styles-when-created-in-ui-builder))

- UI Toolkit: Added missing description labels for PanelSettings properties.
    (UUM-44278)

- UI Toolkit: Added support for setting `ListView.ScrollToItem` and `ScrollView.scrollOffset` when the content container size is still being calculated.
    ([UUM-33784](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scrolltoitem-should-work-on-the-same-frame-the-layout-size-is-updated))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed "invalid vertex" errors
    (UUM-42891)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed a bug that caused the UI Builder new selector text to display incorrectly after a select is added.
    (UUM-39626)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed a bug that caused `EnumField` to not update its displayed text when it changed back from `showMixedValue` mode.
    ([UUM-41395](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enumfield-remains-displayed-as-a-mixed-string-when-showmixedvalue-is-set-back-to-false-and-setvaluewithoutnotify-is-used))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an exception that was thrown when adding a hidden column to a multi-column control.
    ([UUM-39648](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/exception-when-adding-column-to-multicolumntreeview-with-visible-set-to-false))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder that caused an exception when using a `CustomRenderTexture` where a `RenderTexture` was expected.
    ([UUM-37729](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentnullexception-value-cannot-be-null-error-is-thrown-when-selecting-a-visual-element-with-a-custom-render-texture-set-as-a-background))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder where editing an element in-canvas would sometimes have an offset.
    (UUM-17577)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where adding a UXML Object to the UI Builder caused errors to appear in the console.
    (UUM-43340)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where applying the \[UxmlElement\] tag to a custom control featuring a UxmlFactory/UxmlTraits led to duplicate entries in the UI Builder's Project panel.
    (UIT-2013)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where generic type UI controls appeared in the UI Builder's Library panel.
    (UIT-2014)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where PropertyField was incorrectly resolving the type when displaying an ObjectField, and a class shared the same name as a built-in type.
    ([UUM-29499](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/type-mismatch-is-assigned-to-the-mesh-filter-component-instead-of-the-mesh-when-there-is-a-mesh-script-in-the-project))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where the context menu for bound attribute fields showed wrong items.
    (UUM-46157)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where the Data Binding Source completion popup being updated when the UI Builder window was moved or resized.
    (UIT-1849)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where the UI Builder databinding popup window didn't close, resize, and wasn't displayed because of some focus actions.
    (UUM-43981)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where the `MultiColumnTreeView` and `MultiColumnListView ` view controllers lost reference to the `sortColumnDescriptions` after deserializing from UXML.
    (UUM-33663)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where users could not update UXML schema for custom controls created with UxmlElementAttribute.

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where when you set SetValueWithoutNotify on the Vector3Field element would trigger the RegisterValueChangedCallback.
    ([UUM-43504](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vector3field-setvaluewithoutnotify-triggers-registervaluechangedcallback-when-used-with-float-dot-nan))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where `PanelSettingsInspector` displayed the wrong scale mode.
    ([UUM-35021](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scale-mode-parameters-do-not-match-the-selected-scale-mode-when-scale-mode-is-changed))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue with the *Unset all* option not unsetting the data in the Data Binding window.
    (UUM-37010)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue with `ListView.itemsChosen` being incorrectly called when clicking on two separate items.
    ([UUM-42450](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/listview-dot-itemschosen-is-called-when-quickly-single-clicking-on-two-separate-list-entries))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue with `ListView` being stuck when trying to scroll up.
    ([UUM-28510](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-list-in-the-inspector-cant-be-scrolled-to-the-top-using-the-mouse-wheel-after-it-was-scrolled-down))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed attributes loading the wrong asset when the reference was to a subasset.
    (UUM-41963)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed duplicating elements in UI Builder does not copy UXML objects and bindings.

- UI Toolkit: Fixed gaps between background repeat stamps.
    ([UUM-36753](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transparent-gaps-between-repeated-textures-of-visual-element-background-in-game-view))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed issue where you cannot set sortColumnDescriptions property after columns property in multi-column controls.
    (UIT-2124)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed missing update trigger field in the binding window when editing a custom binding.

- UI Toolkit: Fixed ScrollView produces jittery animation when playing PostPointerUpAnimation.
    ([UUM-40352](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scrollview-produces-jittery-animation-when-playing-postpointerupanimation))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed sorting change events being sent during reapplication of view data state.
    ([UUM-36302](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-profiler-ui-toolkit-multicolumntreeview-initializes-default-sortcolumns-too-late-for-initial-sorting))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the Dynamic height ListView scrolling to the wrong item when using `ScrollToItem`.
    ([UUM-40674](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/listview-is-scrolled-to-the-wrong-item-when-using-scrolltoitem-in-a-listview-with-dynamic-height-virtualization-method))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the inconsistent Bezier offset issue when using `Painter2D`.

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the incorrect selection types for elements instantiated by a template within a custom control.
    ([UUM-32501](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-nullreferenceexception-when-building-custom-element-tree-from-uxml))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the issue with `ObjectField` not clearing up when using the *Backspace* key.
    ([UUM-35034](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/list-item-does-not-get-cleared-when-using-backspace))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the misalignments found in the composite controls.
    (UUM-25403)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the order of the spacing and border fields in the UI Builder inspector to match Unity Style Sheets \(USS\) order.

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the vertical scroller visibilty issue of the TextField control.
    (UIT-2027)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the `contentContainer` for `RadioButtonGroup`.
    ([UUM-39830](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-radio-button-group-container-element-is-not-referenced-when-calling-radiobuttongroup-dot-contentcontainer))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the `ListView` single-click issue when `EventSystem` and `StandaloneInputModule` are used in the scene.
    ([UUM-42106](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/items-in-the-listview-cant-be-selected-if-theres-already-selected-item-when-eventsystem-and-standaloneinputmodule-are-in-the-scene))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the `TreeView` element not being expanded fully when trying to expand it more than once.
    ([UUM-27589](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-treeview-element-is-not-expanding-fully-when-trying-to-expand-it-more-than-once))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI builder so a warning box does not display when entering play mode.
    (UUM-37271)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Builder Viewport background turns white after docking or undocking the UI Builder Window.
    ([UUM-47261](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-viewport-background-turns-white-after-docking-or-undocking-the-ui-builder-window))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Document Live Reload feature being systematically triggered when entering Play mode with the UI Builder window open.
    ([UUM-43595](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-mouse-events-do-not-trigger-when-ui-builder-is-open))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed USS files reordering in UI Builder.
    ([UUM-37728](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-are-not-saved-when-changing-styles-orders-in-the-ui-builder))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed `RadioButtonGroup` such that its choices clear properly.
    ([UUM-40687](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/radiobuttongroup-choices-list-doesnt-clear-when-the-script-is-not-in-a-hierarchy))

- UI Toolkit: Improved performance of selecting and adding elements in the UI Builder.

- UI Toolkit: Improved the `ListView` content container to prevent resizing smaller than it should be when reordering items.
    ([UUM-42365](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/list-view-automatically-collapses-when-reordering-items))

- UI Toolkit: Modified `EnumFlagsField` so they can have the `Everything` and `None` flags declared anywhere in the enum.
    ([UUM-40696](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-enums-from-flag-enum-are-not-shown-in-the-dropdown-menu-if-it-has-a-specific-order))

- UI Toolkit: UXML Enum attributes are no longer case sensitive.
    ([UUM-33414](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/base-and-compared-are-displayed-vertically-when-comparing-memory-snapshots-in-the-memory-profiler))

- UI Toolkit: You can now use single clicks to select the data binding source path in the popup in UI Builder.

- Undo System: Improved performance on `Undo Flush` when using the serialization system.
    (UUM-10900)

- Universal RP: Add GBuffer \(fill\) passes to ComplexLit and Unlit shader to prevent GBuffer data holes.
    ([UUM-21919](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/complex-lit-shader-has-black-slash-missing-pixels-when-viewed-in-albedo-mode))

- Universal RP: Added an `RTHandle` pool to fix the `RTHandle` reallocation at runtime.
    ([UUM-40249](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-performance-drops-as-oculusruntime-dot-waittobeginframe-time-ms-increases-to-150-200-ms-in-play-mode-when-msaa-is-enabled-and-scene-view-is-opened-slash-focused))

- Universal RP: Added depth and stencil operations to FullScreenPassRendererFeature and allowed users to opt-out of depth-stencil being bound per feature in the "Additional Properties" section.
    ([UUM-26399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/full-screen-renderer-feature-does-not-work-with-stencil-1))

- Universal RP: Disabled Soft Shadow Quality per-light levels on Quest and HoloLens platforms to improve XR performance.
    ([UUM-33025](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-xr-performance-degradation-when-comparing-android-quest-2-builds-across-2020-dot-3-and-2023-dot-x))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue causing 'implicit truncation of vector type' warning when using ShaderGraph shaders in the Forward+ Rendering Path
    ([UUM-46851](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/implicit-truncation-of-vector-type-shader-warning-when-rendering-path-is-set-to-forward-plus))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue that caused Game View not to render after enabling URP Dynamic Resolution with DirectX 12.
    ([UUM-29260](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-after-enabling-urp-dynamic-resolution-the-game-view-is-not-rendered))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where additional lights were not rendering correctly when using a mix of shadow settings in deferred.
    ([UUM-46577](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hard-shadows-appear-in-the-game-view-when-enabling-cast-shadows))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where data-driven lens-flare was missing occlusion.
    ([UUM-31662](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lens-flare-occlusion-effect-doesnt-work-when-the-camera-gameobject-is-behind-obstacles))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where IndexOutOfRangeException was thrown when creating a stacked camera from script.
    ([UUM-6763](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/indexoutofrangeexception-when-generating-stack-camera))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where NullReferenceException was thrown when camera prefab referenced a camera outside the prefab in the camera stack.
    ([UUM-23148](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-making-a-prefab-from-a-camera-that-has-another-camera-in-its-stack))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where Rendering Layers didn't work properly when opening a project.
    ([UUM-44741](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-is-not-rendered-when-ssao-is-enabled-and-rendering-path-is-set-to-deferred))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where Shader ID's weren't reset properly in the DepthNormals pass.
    ([UUM-36069](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enabling-ssao-causes-the-urp-decal-projector-to-become-invisible-when-its-inspector-is-used))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where SSAO would not apply to a scene when using the Deferred Rendering Path and with no Directional light active.
    ([UUM-29957](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-space-ambient-occlusion-is-not-visible-when-the-intensity-of-directional-light-is-0-dot-0001-or-lower))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue with Screen Space Decals where dark artefacts appeared in the editor.
    ([UUM-40885](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/direct3d11-urp-screenspace-decals-show-dark-artifacts-in-editor-while-targeting-android-platform))

- Universal RP: Fixed ArgumentNullException when trying to use a FullScreenPassRenderer feature with "None" in the requirements mask with Render Graph.
    (UUM-27276)

- Universal RP: Fixed FullScreenPassRendererFeature only using the material of the last full screen feature in a frame, this allows multiple passes to work correctly within one frame.
    ([UUM-30970](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/black-and-white-flickering-when-using-two-full-screen-pass-renderer-features))

- Universal RP: Fixed issue so that  *Native RenderPass* no longer produces errors when using `RenderingLayers`.
    ([UUM-34728](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-universal-rp-lens-flares-are-corruptly-rendered-when-rendering-path-is-deferred-with-native-renderpass-enabled))

- Universal RP: Fixed memory leak from render texture when rtHandle realloc failed to be added to pool.
    ([UUM-46882](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-render-texture-memory-leak))

- Universal RP: Fixed missing "_BlitScaleBias" upload for text shaders using the CoreRP Blit.hlsl header.
    ([UUM-35591](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-blitscalebias-on-custom-fullscreen-shader-is-0))

- Universal RP: Fixed noise and flicker caused by TAA when the *Very High* option is in use.
    ([UUM-37582](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-in-game-ui-text-is-blurry-and-shimmering-when-using-anti-aliasing))

- Universal RP: Fixed overlay cameras so they always have their clear flag set to nothing during Play mode.
    ([UUM-2386](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onmouseover-is-not-registered-when-using-overlay-camera-in-urp))

- Universal RP: Fixed shader stripping when using APV.
    ([UUM-42601](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/baked-lightmaps-are-not-applied-in-the-player))

- Universal RP: Fixed the `missing _Color` exception for the *Shader* property.
    (UUM-35520)

- Universal RP: Fixing an issue with `RenderRequest` using the wrong renderer.
    ([UUM-38158](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/depth-is-not-rendered-in-a-depth-only-camera-which-is-set-up-by-a-custom-script))

- Universal Windows Platform: Fixed an issue with invalid characters appearing at the beginning of the `StoreManifest.xml` file in UWP.
    ([UUM-42689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/there-is-an-invalid-character-at-the-start-of-the-storemanifest-dot-xml-when-building-for-uwp))

- URP: Fixed a bug with Light Layers not working correctly when Additional Lights are set to Per Vertex.
    ([UUM-40810](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightlayer-is-not-working-as-expected-when-additional-lights-are-set-on-per-vertex))

- URP: Fixed HDR Output can't be turned off via the `HDROutputSettings` API in the editor.
    ([UUM-45838](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-hdr-output-cant-be-turned-off-via-hdroutputsettings-api-in-the-editor))

- URP: Fixed issue so that the Editor creates color textures in custom render passes for 2D.
    ([UUM-14400](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-custom-render-pass-does-not-work-when-using-2d-renderer))

- URP: Fixed the Overlay UI so it does not disappear when the Render Graph and HDR display support is used in the Editor.
    (UUM-45545)

- URP: Global Settings always exist when URP is the current active pipeline.
    (XPIPELINE-796)

- UTR: Fixed the conversion of total duration in the `PlayerBuildInfo` message.

- Version Control: Fixed an issue where an existing checkout operation has locked the workspace, which was triggered by saving the current scene at check-in.

- Version Control: Fixed an issue where the Unity Version Control toolbar icon would disappear.

- VFX Graph: Enabled Dynamic Resolution Scaling on blocks and operators that sample depth or color
    ([UUM-546](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/visual-effect-graph-collision-is-not-visible-in-the-game-view-when-dlss-is-enabled))

- VFX Graph: Fixed a compilation error caused by Cube outputs that share a texture with another context
    ([UUM-41037](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-basecolormap-redefinition-error-in-graph-with-shadow-casting-outputs))

- VFX Graph: Fixed a console error caused by deleting a VFX asset.
    ([UUM-41333](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-deleting-vfx-and-subgraph-assets))

- VFX Graph: Fixed a corruption error caused by creating a new VFX in an open VFX
    ([UUM-41334](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-gets-corrupted-when-trying-to-replace-existing-graph-during-save))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an error where a VFX asset was overwritten with a VFX that contains different systems from the original file.
    ([UUM-42188](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-rewriting-vfx-assets-that-contain-multiple-systems-results-in-errors))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an exception that happened when seting a fabric material to transparent.
    ([UUM-41220](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-exception-while-switching-fabric-material-from-opaque-to-transparent))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue where a material's size increased in runtime and caused a reduction in performance.
    (UUM-40722)

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue where the "materials" and "sharedMaterials" properties returned all materials instead of returning only the active materials.
    (UUM-21328)

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue where the overlay is offset when a VisualEffect component is rotated in HDRP
    ([UUM-13531](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-selection-outline-has-offset-if-vfx-has-sg-assigned))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue with the wrong size used for updates in strips with immortal particles.
    (UUM-46154)

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue with wrong texture or flickering when two instances of the same VFX use different textures \(via exposed texture\) and if that texture is connected to another block in an output context.
    (UUM-43274)

- VFX Graph: Fixed automatic sorting mode on `SpriteLit` and `SpriteUnlit` materials.
    ([UUM-22486](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-slash-urp-slash-sprite-inconsistent-sorting-mode-with-sprite))

- VFX Graph: Fixed the error "Option to clear stale reference" while using a SpriteLit or Sprite Unlit target material.
    ([UUM-22349](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-unexpected-sg-error-on-correct-material))

- VFX Graph: Fixed undefined behavior of `SpawnerSetAttribute` when an expression is connected to activation slot.
    ([UUM-35461](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-spawn-behavior-inconsistent-in-runtime-vs-editor))

- VFX Graph: Fixed unexpected behavior when outputting to multiple meshes during material setup.
    ([UUM-35755](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-multimesh-output-with-shadergraph-is-ignoring-no-cast-shadow))

- VFX Graph: Fixed unexpected NaN direction values on primitives with a position and scale of 0
    (UUM-41463)

- VFX Graph: Removed the option to support VFX Graph on incompatible targets.
    ([UUM-26673](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-slash-vfx-unsupported-urp-sg-materials-contain-support-vfx-graph-flag-in-graph-settings))

- Video: Fixed an issue on iOS where a white screen appeared instead of a video and logged a "Cannot read file" error.
    ([UUM-40973](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-white-screen-is-displayed-instead-of-the-video-and-cannot-read-file-is-logged-after-resuming-the-video-if-video-player-was-paused-and-the-app-was-minimized-and-opened))

- Video: Fixed an issue that caused irregular playback speed in the Video Player component for Web platform applications.
    ([UUM-33747](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-player-component-has-irregular-playback-speed-in-player-when-using-webgl))

- Video: Fixed an issue where after changing the scene, `WebCamTextures` did not properly destroy the internal `GraphicsTexture` which crashed the Editor.
    ([UUM-44774](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-graphics-device-is-null-when-using-the-sync-version-of-scenemanager-dot-loadscene))

- Video: Fixed an issue with the Video Player component that caused performance degradation when using the linear color space for Web platform applications.
    ([UUM-32755](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-player-component-causes-performance-degradation-in-webgl-player-when-using-linear-color-space))

- Video: Fixed the WebCamTexture API so it no longer cause errors with the GraphicsTexture API when you use it to create a texture.

- Video: Improved `VP8Encoder` compression and encoding speed.
    ([UUM-20744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-video-import-size-is-too-big-when-using-vp8-codec))

- Visual Scripting: Added a warning icon in the Project Settings window, next to assemblies that reference Editor assemblies.
    ([UVSB-2382](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nodes-from-runtime-assemblies-that-reference-unity-editor-are-not-visible-in-the-fuzzy-finder))

- Visual Scripting: Fixed a memory leak that occurred when you tried to destroy a game object.
    ([UVSB-2427](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-after-destroying-object))

- Visual Scripting: Fixed a migration deserialization bug that was introduced in version 1.8.0 of the Visual Scripting package.
    ([UVSB-2492](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deserialization-error-when-upgrading-to-1-dot-8-0))

- Visual Scripting: Fixed an issue that caused Gradient graph variables to reset when the Editor is placed in Play Mode.
    ([UVSB-2334](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gradients-in-graph-variables-of-a-visual-scripting-graph-get-cleared-when-starting-play-mode))

- Visual Scripting: Fixed an issue that prevented the Exceptions dropdown menu in the Try Catch node from loading.
    ([UVSB-2463](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-when-trying-to-load-exceptions-for-try-catch-node-dropdown))

- Visual Scripting: Fixed an issue where a null check of a scene variable in a script with an "OnDrawGizmos" event in the Editor caused an infinite amount of GameObjects to be created in Prefab mode.
    ([UVSB-2453](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-infinite-amount-of-gameobjects-is-created-in-prefab-mode-when-performing-a-null-check-of-a-scene-variable-in-editor-with-an-ondrawgizmos-event))

- Visual Scripting: Fixed an issue where code for custom nodes was being stripped in AOT builds when Managed Stripping Level is set to High.
    ([UVSB-2437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-custom-visualscripting-unit-is-stripped-from-build-when-using-il2cpp-and-medium-or-high-managed-stripping))

- Visual Scripting: Fixed an issue where OnInputSystemEvent doesn't trigger until Input Vector increases past 0.5.
    ([UVSB-2435](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/visual-scripting-on-input-system-event-doesnt-log-input-vector-until-it-reaches-0-dot-5-plus-value))

- Visual Scripting: Fixed an issue where Script Graph Asset string data wasn't unloaded after deserialization.
    ([UVSB-2366](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/visual-scripting-graph-json-string-is-kept-in-memory-when-graph-is-loaded))

- Visual Scripting: Fixed an issue with assemblies disappearing from the Node Library after a domain reload.
    ([UVSB-2459](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assembly-disappears-from-node-library-after-domain-reload))

- Visual Scripting: Removed a corrupt mdb file which was causing the ScriptUpdater to fail.
    ([UVSB-2360](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-ships-with-corrupt-mdb-which-causes-the-scriptupdater-to-fail))

- Web: Fixed a syntax issue that caused Web platform builds to fail when multithreading was enabled.
    (UUM-44273)

- Web: Fixed an issue in the Web platform's FMOD implementation that caused the console to be flooded with errors when using the `PlayOneShot` API.
    ([UUM-40643](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-fmod-errors-in-the-browser-console-when-audio-is-played-with-playoneshot-frequently))

- WebGL: Fixed a syntax issue that caused Web platform applications to establish connections on unsupported network ports.

- WebGL: Fixed an issue that prevented background images from loading when compression was enabled for Web platform applications.
    ([UUM-8692](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-background-image-not-visible-on-the-loading-screen-when-loading-build-project))

- Windows: Fixed a possible crash when the non-client area is redrawn before the player is fully initialized.
    (UUM-43075)

- Windows: Fixed the *Restart Unity as a standard user* button so it now works when the Editor is run as an administrator because the Unity Hub is running as administrator or due to Unity's executable compatibility flags being configured to be run as administrator.
    ([UUM-42508](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/restart-unity-as-a-standard-user-button-when-running-unity-as-admin-sometimes-fails-to-work))

- XR: Added support for foveation maps on platforms, such as DX12 and Vulkan, where the origin of the y-axis is at the top of the RenderTarget.
    (UUM-40561)

- XR: Fixed Android VideoPlayer crash when using Ycbcr video decoding on some devices.
    (UUM-46315)

