### Known Issues in 2019.2.0a7 under investigation

*   2D: \[SpriteEditor\] Sprite is not sliced accurately into multiple sprites when Type is set to Automatic (1129386)
    
*   Android: Application crashes when launched on Android devices with Android 6 and lower (1127704)
    
*   Asset Import: Editor crashes on selecting a texture preset with different settings (1123752)
    
*   Editor: Unable to change Editor layout after importing asset or any package into project ([1132198](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/product/unity/issues/guid/1132198/))
    
*   Graphics: \[LWRP\] Game View appears blank when Anti Aliasing (MSAA) is disabled for LightwightRenderPipelineAsset (LWRP package v5.6.1) ([1132613](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/product/unity/issues/guid/1132613/))
    
*   Graphics: \[DirectX 12\] Editor crashes on Removing Direct3D12 Windows Graphics APIs from list ([1132463](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/product/unity/issues/guid/1132463/))
    
*   IL2CPP: Application crash on startup when building with IL2CPP scripting backend ([1121989](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-application-crash-on-startup-when-building-with-il2cpp-scripting-backend))
    
*   Scripting: DLL does not update and "MissingMethodException" error is thrown when accessing the obsolete code from script ([1108911](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scripting-dll-does-not-update-and-missingmethodexception-error-is-thrown-when-accessing-the-obsolete-code-from-script))
    

### New 2019.2.0a7 Entries since 2019.2.0a6

#### Features

*   2D: Sprite Editor Window available as a Package.
    
*   GI: Added support for multiple importance sampling the environment to the GPU lightmapper.
    
*   Physics: Upgrade cloth lib from deprecated PxCloth to NvCloth.
    
*   Scripting: Added support for Assembly Definition Reference (.asmref) files. These files allow for adding additional source code directories to an existing Assembly Definition File(.asmdef).
    
*   VFX: Added needed core behavior to support MotionVectors.
    

#### Backwards Compatibility Breaking Changes

*   2D: Tilemap Tooling (Tile Palette) is now a Core Package.
    
*   Android: Deprecated x86 support.
    
*   Editor: Default property drawer will use EnumPopup and EnumMaskPopup when possible to display the property instead of the old Enum drawer. ([1115381](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/drawdefaultinspector-displays-enums-differently-from-editorguilayout-dot-enumpopup-when-using-cusom-inspector))
    
*   Editor: The legacy Module Manager has been mostly removed. Only extension modules located inside the Unity install will still be loaded now, and the 'Modules...' menu item and window has been removed completely.
    
*   Graphics: Async shader compilation: Blit now never uses cyan dummy shader.
    
*   Graphics: Async shader compilation: DrawProcedural skips rendering during compilation instead of trying to use dummy shader.
    
*   Graphics: Moved the async shader compilation option from preferences to project settings.
    
*   Graphics: Support graphics API switching by restarting Unity.
    
*   Timeline: Clip properties are no longer animated by recording. They are now animated using the inline curves.
    
*   XR: Oculus (Standalone) and OpenVR (Standalone) package names have been changed to use (Desktop) instead of (Standalone).
    

#### Changes

*   VFX: Change the awkening process of VisualEffect component, inspector is now functionnal even if component is disabled. ([1117103](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-overrides-stored-in-prefabs-get-disabled-when-using-prefabs-in-scenes-making-new-overrides-even-when-reverting))

#### Improvements

*   Android: AndroidJava\* and AndroidJNI APIs moved to builtin package AndroidJNI.
    
*   Android: Reduce armv7 code size by 20% by enabling thumb.
    
*   Animation: Added option to hide read-only clip properties and curves in the Animation Window to improve editor performance.
    
*   Animation: Added selection filter for the Animation Window. Only shows properties and curves of selected game objects.
    
*   Animation: Added visual feedback and hotkeys for the ripple option in the Animation Window.
    
*   Animation: The Animation Window can now be used to preview/author Animation C# Jobs constraints.
    
*   Editor: Exposed ProjectWindowUtil.CreateScriptAssetFromTemplateFile, allowing Editor scripts to create new text-based assets from template files in a similar way to how the built-in C# Script template is used.
    
*   Editor: macOS: Add proxy icon for currently open scene to editor main window title bar.
    
*   Editor: Optimized inspector refresh after Enter Playmode.
    
*   Graphics: Async shader compilation: Minimize cyan dummy shader flashes by variant tracking and warmup.
    
*   Graphics: Improved performance of async texture loading on PS4 to remove a rendering stall when 2D textures are created.
    
*   Mobile: Improved performance of async texture loading on iOS to remove a rendering stall when 2D textures are created.
    
*   OSX: Native plugins with the .dylib filextension are now supported.
    
*   Package Manager: Now showing modules as installed if they are installed as a dependency.
    
*   Profiler: Memory Profiler added single threaded platform support. Eg: WebGL.
    
*   Profiler: Players will show up more consistently in the profiler list, when there are a lot of players running on the same network, previously Editor wouldn't keep up with message processing incoming from a lot of players, thus it was taking a while for a new player to show up in the profiler list.
    
*   Profiler: Provide dynamic code (Mono JIT) information to VTune Amplifier.
    
*   Profiler: Unity created threads are now named in VTune profiler.
    
*   Scripting: NativeArrays of bool and char and types containing bool and char can now be created. (1127499)
    
*   Shaders: Added `UNITY_SEPARATE_TEXTURE_SAMPLER` define in the HlslSupport.cginc for platforms capable of doing separate texture and sampler objects.
    
*   Timeline: Added UI to animate track and clip properties.
    
*   UI Elements: Prevented exceptions thrown by user code from corrupting the UI renderer.
    

#### API Changes

*   AI: Added the `GetEdgesAndNeighbors()` method in the `NavMeshQuery` class for retrieving the shape of a given node and all the navigation nodes which it connects to. The method can be called in jobs.
    
*   Editor: Added `Editor.DrawFoldoutInspector` to draw a nested inspector with a foldout title bar.
    
*   Editor: Added `MaterialEditor.customShaderGUI` property returning the active ShaderGUI object for the current material.
    
*   Editor: Usage of DescriptionAttribute to change the display name of enum values in the inspector has been changed to use the InspectorNameAttribute instead. ([1115381](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/drawdefaultinspector-displays-enums-differently-from-editorguilayout-dot-enumpopup-when-using-cusom-inspector))
    
*   GI: Added `Gizmos.exposure` texture which, when set, is readback to determine exposure correction for LightProbe gizmos. This is the alternative to correcting them via Postprocessing.
    
*   Shaders: Added `Shader.FindPassTagValue` method for querying the pass tag values.
    
*   Shaders: Added `Shader.passCount` property for retrieving the number of shader passes of the active subshader.
    
*   Terrain: Added `TerrainData.GetInterpolatedHeights` method for querying the interpolated terrain height values over a grid of samples.
    
*   Terrain: Exposed `TerrainLayerInspector` class.
    
*   Video: MediaEncoder.AddFrame now has overloads that take timestamps for producing Variable Frame Rate movies. Timestamps are expressed using new MediaTime struct.
    

#### Fixes

*   Fixed security vulnerability. ([CVE-2019-9197](/security#CVE-2019-9197)).
    
*   Analytics: Fixed issue: usage statistics will no longer be sent when editor analytics is disabled.
    
*   2D: Fix assertion message when selecting a SpriteRenderer with no Sprite with Sprite Editor Window open (1122260)
    
*   2D: Fix Sprite is not generated from texture when user uses "Apply" action at Unapplied import settings popup (1117274)
    
*   Android: File system: Fixed incomplete reading of large files (1111919)
    
*   Android: Fix "Preserve framebuffer alpha" flag always shows the phone background. ([1104092](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-preserve-framebuffer-alpha-flag-always-shows-the-phone-background))
    
*   Android: Fix "Render outside safe area" setting doesn't work with Portrait or Landscape Orientation. ([1125222](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-render-outside-safe-area-setting-doesnt-work-with-portrait-or-landscape-orientation))
    
*   Android: Fix load failure of il2cpp player using OBB. ([1124777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-error-of-failed-to-extract-resources-needed-by-il2cpp-when-building-with-split-application-binary-set-to-true))
    
*   Android: Fix null exception on GC when Java class is not found. ([1120132](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-calling-androidjavaclass-for-a-non-existent-class-causes-a-crash-in-player-when-cloud-diagnostics-is-enabled))
    
*   Android: Fix pressing the square "recent apps" button when the app is using Vulkan API gives blurry/gloving transition. ([1024522](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-ltsrp-pressing-the-square-recent-apps-button-when-the-app-is-using-vulkan-api-gives-blurry-slash-gloving-transition))
    
*   Android: Fix Screen.safeArea and cutouts not initialized until orientation change on Huawei Mate 20 Pro. (1127700)
    
*   Android: Fix visual artifacts in the skybox when using more than one camera in a scene on Adreno 330 devices. ([1122358](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-visual-artifacts-in-the-skybox-when-using-more-than-one-camera-in-a-scene-on-adreno-330-devices))
    
*   Android: Hide the internal Visual Studio build system setting for Android ([1118921](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-release-build-fails-with-an-error-keystore-was-tampered-with-or-password-was-incorrect))
    
*   Android: Touch and mouse position's y value will be inverted in the native backend instead of managed code in the new input system
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where additive animations would build up values when other layers were not writing ([1094706](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/empty-animatorcontroller-on-animator-used-by-playables-breaks-layer-blending))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where AnimationPlayable.iKOnFeet didn't propagate properly when multiple AnimationOutputs are connected to the same Animator ([1115086](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/footik-not-properly-applied-when-using-animator-controller-plus-timeline))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where querying clips in partially-loaded Override Controllers would crash ([1118196](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-animatoroverridecontroller-getoriginalclip-when-using-an-indexer-operator-to-access-an-animation-clip))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where RectTransform properties would show missing curves that were not actually missing ([1115014](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-anchored-position-z-reads-as-missing-in-the-animation-window))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where the Animation Component would stay ActiveAndEnabled when the GameObject was disabled. ([1094567](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/behaviour-dot-isactiveandenabled-returns-true-when-used-on-a-script-disabled-object-with-an-animation-component))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where the preview of transitions with exitTime == 0 would generate some NaN errors ([1092857](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preview-window-of-a-transition-shows-nan-when-changing-transition-duration-after-selecting-a-state-in-the-animator-window))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where trying to add a key to a curve would crash. ([1101703](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tried-to-add-a-keypoint-on-an-animation-curve))
    
*   Asset Import: Disabled multi-selection in ModelImporter Material panel to prevent bad reading of serialized properties. ([1118475](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/buildexternalobjectscache-throws-nullreferenceexception-when-inspecting-multiple-fbx-assets-at-once))
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed local fileID upgrade of FBX files that were not upgraded correctly between 2019.1.0a3 and 2019.1.0a8 releases. ([1124003](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-skinnedmeshrenderer-components-mesh-references-are-missing-after-upgrading-the-project))
    
*   Audio: Audio High Pass Filter component has no slider ([818332](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-high-pass-filter-component-has-no-slider))
    
*   Audio: Audio output groups are not shown with a Tree structure (but as a flat list) in output group object selector ([1010156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-output-groups-are-not-shown-with-a-tree-structure-but-as-a-flat-list-in-output-group-object-selector))
    
*   Audio: Fixed an audio playables crash at shutdown. ([1107760](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-in-parkfmodresource-at-audiomixerplayable-or-releasechannelgroupsvisitor-at-audioplayable-when-unloading-fmod))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fix "Sprite Atlas Sprites Included in Bundle Multiple Times" ([1121868](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-same-atlas-assets-are-being-included-in-asset-bundle-multiple-times-when-bundle-is-built))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fix Unity allows to build project via script with not compatible color space and graphics API. ([1076664](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-allows-to-build-project-via-script-with-not-compatible-color-space-and-graphics-api))
    
*   Cinemachine: Fix: Timeline - When mainpulating any controls the camera pops between the desired image and some point in space (1109024)
    
*   DX12: Fixes for sparse textures flickering or incorrect when modified (1119913, 1119915)
    
*   Editor: Added new particle system force field icon in the scene view (1107479)
    
*   Editor: Asserts in in test actions now correctly impacts the test results. ([1075230](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/test-runner-assert-dot-ignore-in-beforetest-callback-doesnt-work-for-unitytests-without-parameters))
    
*   Editor: Assume calls in UnityTest is now treated as inconclusive result. (1075663)
    
*   Editor: BuildSettings Window uses SettingsWindow for Player Settings ([1113248](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-settings-logging-setting-layout-breaks-on-shrinking-the-window), 1126351)
    
*   Editor: Fix for crash in Editor when switching to DX12 (1127388)
    
*   Editor: Fix issue with EditorUtility.scriptCompilationFailed being false when .asmdef assemblies failed to compile on editor startup. ([1106450](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorutility-dot-scriptcompilationfailed-not-flagging-package-compilation-errors-during-editor-startup))
    
*   Editor: Fix issue with scripts not being recompiled when exiting play and "Recompile After Finished Playing" is set (1118204)
    
*   Editor: Fix SceneView out-of-sync controlIDs on "duringSceneGui" callback (1126865)
    
*   Editor: Fix SettingsWindow layout breaks ([1124696](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-settings-window-breaks-a-custom-layout-after-upgrading-to-2019-dot-1-and-2019-dot-2-when-the-layout-was-made-in-2018-dot-3))
    
*   Editor: Fixed certain shortcuts not executing when in paused play mode ([1110320](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/maximize-shortcut-does-not-work-for-game-view-window-when-in-play-mode))
    
*   Editor: Fixed clicking on AudioListener toggled some empty space ([1122847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clicking-on-audio-listener-component-in-inspector-toggles-some-empty-space))
    
*   Editor: Fixed creating a material with multiple inspector windows open would trigger IndexOfOfRange errors ([1122847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clicking-on-audio-listener-component-in-inspector-toggles-some-empty-space))
    
*   Editor: Fixed editor resize issues when multiple GameViews are open ([1110671](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-does-not-scale-correctly-on-resizing-it-when-multiple-game-views-are-open-in-the-editor))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue related to Script Execution Order window truncating lengthy script names in label control. ([1122059](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/script-execution-order-dialog-doesnt-show-complete-class-names-for-long-class-names))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue where Version Control option is not enabled in Assets context menu after enabling Perforce ([942261](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assets-version-control-submenu-in-top-menu-doesnt-appear-until-forcing-project-reimport))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with incorrect order of Menu items in Edit Menu - OSX ([1110914](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-undo-and-redo-arent-the-first-two-items-delete-is-not-in-right-section-in-the-edit-menu))
    
*   Editor: Fixed NullReferenceException when having multiple asmdefs in the same folder (1120826)
    
*   Editor: Fixed removing a component from multi-selected gameobjects would break the inspector ([1122847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clicking-on-audio-listener-component-in-inspector-toggles-some-empty-space))
    
*   Editor: Fixed SVG sprites are re-serialized to disk multiple times when working with prefabs (1125015)
    
*   Editor: Removed an unnecessary directory that was included in the Editor installer and bloated the install size by over 100 Mb. (1124267)
    
*   GI: Fixed an issue where attempting to denoise lightmaps with Optix on a machine with both an RTX and a non-RTX card installed would lead to a crash. (1122962)
    
*   GI: Fixed an issue where Unity would try to load incompatible serialized lighting data from cache and print out "Failed to load '\*\*\*' because it was serialized with a newer version of Unity. (Has a higher SerializedFile version).". (1112513)
    
*   GI: Fixed issue where push off parameter in Lightmap Parameters asset is ignored when baking lightmaps. ([1117680](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pushoff-slider-in-lightmap-parameters-asset-has-no-effect))
    
*   GI: Fixes an issue were newly loaded scenes with bounce count 3 would not bake any indirect light. ([1122595](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/very-dark-shadows-are-baked-when-using-multiple-scenes-and-setting-bounces-value-to-3))
    
*   GI: GPU lightmapper: Fix crash on application exit when GPU lightmapper openCL context is lost.
    
*   GI: GPU lightmapper: Light shadow casting flag is respected for direct light from bounces. (1111135)
    
*   Graphics: Fix crashes caused by reflection probes when entering Play mode with a camera selected ([1109892](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-transform-gettransformaccess-when-entering-play-mode-with-the-main-camera-selected-in-the-hierarchy))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed cases where overlapping cross fading objects somtimes appear to be opaque. ([916831](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lod-blinking-artifact-at-speedtree-cross-fade-animation-when-several-tree-billboards-overlap))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash on projector material selection (1124907)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed cyan dummy shader polluting terrain base map (1111755)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed rare race condition when warming up shaders ([1115274](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-on-device-shader-compilation-hangs-~10-percent-of-the-time-on-the-specific-project))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed ShaderVariantCollection inspector to work properly with shaders of large keyword amounts ([938054](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-freezes-when-adding-variants-to-shadervariantcollection-for-shader-with-many-shader-feature))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed: Instancing batcher would crash hard on Vulkan if attempting to draw without an active GPU program. (1126106)
    
*   Graphics: Hardcoded \_NormalMap and \_DetailNormalMap shader property name do not have \[Normal\] attribute automatically added anymore. (1111860)
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fix a rare, generic codegen regression after adding Metal Tessellation support ([1120434](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-shader-doesnt-work-in-standalone-build-with-metal-graphics-api))
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fix a runtime address sanitation issue with hull/domain shader stages (1126152)
    
*   Graphics: Optimised cluster rendering by reducing network packet send latency ([965251](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cluster-rendering-performance-is-slower-on-newest-versions))
    
*   Graphics: Vulkan: Fixed a crash when draw call is made without an active GPU program. (1126841)
    
*   Input: New Input System: Fix a crash when trying to map a key when a non-ASCII key mapping is selected, which does not produce characters for single key presses (e.g. Japanese).
    
*   Input: New Input System: Make scrolling delta on mac work with old-school clicker mice
    
*   iOS: Correctly return Pen.tilt values in the new input system ([1093816](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-pen-tilt-dot-x-is-centered-on-1-dot-5-and-goes-to-0-when-tilting-both-left-and-right))
    
*   iOS: Gamepad.startButton should work correctly. Note: on iOS startButton (or Menu button) only reports down event, there's no up event, that's why we're simulating up event right after down event to simulate a click. ([1093829](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-gamepad-gamepad-dot-current-dot-startbutton-doesnt-return-expected-value))
    
*   Kernel: Fixed: Resizing array through SerialziedPropertie could lead to a crash. (1123752)
    
*   OSX: Fixed incorrect Input.keyCode value when keyboard layout changes on macOS.
    
*   OSX: Fixed incorrect Input.keyCode value when using "Dvorak - QWERTY Command" keyboard layout on macOS. ([1103558](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-hotkeys-are-mapped-as-standard-dvorak-shortcuts-and-ignore-system-preferences-when-using-dvorak-qwerty-keyboard-layout))
    
*   Package Manager: Fix ordering of packages in Package Manager Window ([1130315](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-sorting-is-wrong-for-some-packages))
    
*   Package Manager: Fix Package Manager UI freezing issue when opening a project pointing to the staging registry ([1123022](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freeze-due-to-showing-preview-packages-when-staging-package-repository-is-used))
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed an issue where a git dependency would resolve to the locked hash even after removing the commitish part of a Git URL.
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed an issue where assemblies and asmdefs in packages could no longer be referenced. (1124267)
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed an issue where cloning a Git repository could wait indefinitely for user input if credentials for that repository were not configured.
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed Package Manager UI doesn't display digit after -preview in package version (1122777)
    
*   Physics: Fix "Selected Object Info" in Physics Debug View being expanded incorrectly ([1122474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selected-object-info-foldout-is-misbehaving-in-the-physics-debugger))
    
*   Physics: Fix a crash in registerContactManager when instantiating many objects close to each other (1111274)
    
*   Physics: Fix a crash that happened when re-activating Rigidbody that had a parent Rigidbody and was reparented while being inactive (1121720)
    
*   Physics: Fix a crash when Physics.OverlapSphereNonAlloc was called wiith an infinite sphere radius ([1113683](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-castfilter-prefilter-when-calling-physics-dot-overlapspherenonalloc-with-radius-of-float-dot-maxvalue))
    
*   Physics: Fix convex meshes being extra bouncy when falling on top of very thin (~contactOffset) objects. ([1109477](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody-with-capsulecollider-keep-bouncing-when-colliding-with-box-collider-of-size-0-dot-01))
    
*   Playables: Fixed Issue where Instantiating a Prefab using a PlayableDirector with ExposedReferences loaded from an AssetBundle would produce error messages in the Editor. ([1120186](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-when-accessing-playabledirector-component-of-a-gameobject-instantiated-from-an-asset-file))
    
*   Player: Make PlayerConnection API work when reconnecting after disconnecting.
    
*   Prefabs: Driven properties (for example driven by UI layout) now don't get a blue margin in the Inspector and don't show up independently in the Overrides drop-down. (1115499, [1125701](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-is-always-marked-as-unsaved-when-prefab-has-a-constant-size-fitter-component))
    
*   Prefabs: Fix Awake being called with wrong added asset objects. ([1126072](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/material-has-false-id-and-the-path-is-not-defined-when-checking-reference-on-awake-in-prefab-mode))
    
*   Prefabs: Fix Variants and nested prefabs getting wrong override under some circumstances. ([1122325](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serializable-field-in-prefab-variant-loses-all-data-after-being-edited), [1123007](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/object-field-with-reference-to-internal-prefab-object-gets-constantly-marked-as-override-in-the-prefab-variant))
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed an issue where edits in prefab mode might not persist after returning to the scene ([1124967](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/improved-prefab-nesting-changes-made-in-prefab-mode-are-not-saved-on-switching-back-to-the-main-scene))
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed crashes when instantiating prefab with certain user scripts. ([1113205](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-loading-and-sometimes-on-closing-when-on-remappptrfromcachedoffsets), [1125019](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-remappptrfromcachedoffsets-when-dropping-prefab-with-a-specific-script-into-the-hierarchy))
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed drag and drop not unpacking the Prefab instance under some circumstances. ([1117374](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/replace-base-looses-information-about-prefabs-that-are-nested))
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed object IDs changing when saving a prefab after building a player. ([1106345](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefabs-lose-component-references-after-building-the-project))
    
*   Profiler: Fixed missing CPU chart label for the "Others" category not being displayed ([1080435](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-data-does-not-match-the-numeric-data-in-its-hierarchy))
    
*   Scripting: Assembly Definition Reference editor - enable useGUID by default when the reference field is empty.
    
*   Scripting: Fix: prevent user scripts from explicitely unloading global game managers ([1114406](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-loading-up-the-project-fatal-error-unityeditor-dot-assetdatabase-loadassetatpath-is-being-thrown-out-and-unity-hangs))
    
*   Scripting: Legacy .NET 3.5 Scripting Runtime is no longer an option in the player settings UI.
    
*   Scripting: Remove allocation in every frame from ScriptableRuntimeReflectionSystemWrapper.TickRealtimeProbes ([1097039](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scriptableruntimereflection-allocates-17-bytes-of-gc-per-frame))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix "GetThreadContext failed" assertion message on Windows ([1114668](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gc-getthreadcontext-failed-crash-when-calling-gc-dot-collect-and-yielding-the-thread))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix an issue where some C# class libaries would fail to load ([1116475](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unloading-broken-assembly-assets-this-assembly-can-cause-crashes-in-the-runtime))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix crash from method with too many variables ([1103205](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/allocating-too-many-variables-in-a-method-leads-to-a-crash))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix excessive GC allocations when using TLS ([1084800](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mono-net-4-dot-x-tls-1-dot-2-excessive-gc-usage-while-reading-from-tls-stream))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix GC performing unnecessary full collections when incremental GC is enabled ([1129037](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incremental-gc-doesnt-spread-collection-across-multiple-frames))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix hang from race condition in C# sockets on Windows ([1028819](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/streamreader-readline-stops-receiving-messages-after-the-server-hangs))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix hang when using Photon networking on Windows ([1054137](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/photon-unity-networking-messages-timeout-when-using-net-4-dot-x))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix TargetParameterCountException when using Substance ([1093274](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/targetparametercountexception-errors-are-thrown-after-importing-substance-in-unity-asset))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix use of DataContractJsonSerializer with UseSimpleDictionaryFormat option enabled ([1070667](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/datacontractjsonserializer-usesimpledictionaryformat-doesnt-work-when-deserializing))
    
*   Services: Fix crash when unhandled exception occurs on OSX with Cloud Diagnostics enabled ([1121882](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unhandled-c-number-exception-causes-crash-when-cloud-diagnostics-is-enabled-osx-plus-mono))
    
*   UI: CanvasRenderer.SetMesh will now produce an error if a non-readable mesh is passed. ([1101813](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-crashes-when-rendering-non-read-slash-write-enabled-mesh-to-canvas-in-built-application))
    
*   UI Elements: Create default asset when import a USS file fails (1125716)
    
*   UI Elements: Faster picking in UIElements (1124338)
    
*   UI Elements: Fix Adding new elements while clearing children make the editor freeze (1102592)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed Layout struggling message when opening prefab in hierarchy (1120821)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed Layout struggling message when selecting line and trail renderers (1121685)
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed Layout struggling message when selecting object in hierarchy ([1106900](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/layout-update-is-struggling-to-process-current-layout-errors-when-selecting-gameobject-in-hierarchy-window))
    
*   UI Elements: Fixed Object picker selection when cancelling the ObjectSelector window. ([1123688](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cancelling-objectpicker-window-resets-objectfield-to-none-instead-of-an-already-set-value))
    
*   UI Elements: FIxed the delayed attribute not working when using the mouse dragger on UIElements numeric fields (1117379)
    
*   UI Elements: In a scrollview, pass unused wheel events to parent so they can e.g. scroll themselves (1118002)
    
*   UI Elements: Make EditorWindow notification render on top of UIElements content ([1116944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorwindow-notifaction-is-rendered-behind-ui-elements-when-the-elements-are-instantiated-from-uxml))
    
*   UI Elements: Make UIElements debugger remember split view position after domain reload ([1113790](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uielements-debugger-splitter-resets-after-entering-play-mode))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Prevent an error from the reference rewriter about the missing method 'ConfigurationElement::get\_Item' when the EntityFramework.dll assembly is used. ([1124092](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-entityframework-dot-dll-fails-to-build-for-uwp))
    
*   Video: Fixed missing rendering in Editor with multiple game views, and, manual Camera renders targetted by VideoPlayer. ([1109551](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-player-video-clip-renders-only-in-single-game-window-when-multiple-game-windows-are-open))
    
*   Web: Improved documentation for UnityWebRequest regarding cookies. ([1111425](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unitywebrequest-with-setrequestheader-sends-two-cookies))
    
*   Web: More relaxed format requirements for jar:file uris. ([1117525](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/accessing-nonexistent-streaming-asset-on-android-with-incorrect-number-of-slashes-in-the-url-produces-incorrect-error))
    
*   Windows: Fixed Build and Run failing with an incorect path error when the project's Product Name included a colon ([1113179](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-and-run-fails-and-throws-an-incorect-path-error-when-the-projects-product-name-includes-a-colon))
    
*   Windows: Fixed SetCursorPos function not working properly after CursorLockMode is set to None ([1096406](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cursorlockmode-dot-none-doesnt-work-when-user32-dot-dll-is-effecting-cursor-in-the-script))
    
*   Windows: Fixed WinPixEventRuntime.dll deployed with non-development builds ([1118833](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/building-an-application-generates-winpixeventruntime-dot-dll-when-development-build-is-unchecked-and-architecture-is-x86-64))
    
*   Fix security vulnerability UNITY-SEC-2144.