## Release Notes

### 2018.4.0f1 Release Notes

#### Fixes

-   Android: Added support for supplementary Unicode characters for UnitySendMessage. (1059652)
-   Android: Fixed Android Screen.safeArea coordinate system to be in screen space. (1148415)
-   Android: Fixed gradle build failure with Android SDK Build-Tools 29-rc1. (1142929)
-   Animation: Fixed float values not being animated when PPtr references were also in animated bindings. (1143168)
-   Animation: Fixed integer values not being animated when PPtr references were also in animated bindings. (1079856)
-   Asset Import: Fixed .meta files with a \"UTF-8\" BOM causing the YAML parser to freeze Unity. (1145011)
-   Asset Import: Fixed issue with blendshape normals being recalculated when the blendshape normal import option is set to \'None\'. (1140797)
-   Audio: Fixed clip preview autoplay in the object selector. (1126745)
-   Editor: Fixed bug that disabled the availability of having rsp files inside Packages correctly. (1138462)
-   Editor: Fixed crash when creating Presets of AudioManager settings and then modifying AudioManager. (1141203)
-   Editor: Fixed incorrect URL being shown in UV overlap warning message. (1124652)
-   Editor: Fixed the preview pane in the object selector.
-   Facebook: Fixed Facebook GameRoom sometimes faiing when target is Standalone. (1144847)
-   GI: Fixed race condition in Enlighten data loading during additive scene loading that leads to a crash in the standalone player. (1141632)
-   Graphics: Fixed Texture2DMSArray SRV on DX11. (1130212)
-   IL2CPP: Added support for the MethodImplOptions.NoOptimization C# attribute. (1124061)
-   IL2CPP: Fixed a build failure that would occur when targeting UWP w/ il2cpp while using a Managed Stripping Level of High. (1137227)
-   IL2CPP: Fixed an intermittent crash when a managed exception occurs on a back ground thread while the process is shutting down.
-   IL2CPP: Fixed some assemblies missing symbol files after building with the Medium or High Managed Stripping Level. (1142732)
-   IL2CPP: Fixed the overwriting of a copy of a generic by ref argument that uses specifically crafted IL bytecode. (1140509)
-   iOS: Fixed issue where app hangs when synchronously loading asset bundles. (1115979)
-   iOS: Fixed player crash at decode_alpha_selectors_etc when decoding a crunched ETC texture. (1139387)
-   iOS: Fixed plugins not being imported correctly on iOS when \"Automatically Add Capabilities\" is disabled. (1142626)
-   Mobile: Fixed TargetFPS and vSyncCount has no effect on the actual FPS on Razer phones. (1078663)
-   PS4: Fixed indirect draws occasionally causing a soft hang. (1148617)
-   Testing: Fixed TearDown and UnityTearDown getting called on base class first. (1143077)
-   UI Elements: Fixed script field not editable when script is missing. (1144332)
-   Windows: Fixed maximized Standalone window going to fullscreen. (1137204)
-   XR: Fixed a CPU core configuration issue on Oculus Quest that resulted in too many job threads spinning up. (1150332)
-   XR: Improved performance for WIndows MR by using newer presentation APIs from Microsoft. (1148816)
