## Release Notes

### Known Issues in 2020.3.30f1

-   Animation: Animation playback is incorrect when using Asset Bundle exported from Unity 5.6.7f1 ([1390123](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-playback-is-incorrect-when-using-asset-bundle-exported-from-unity-5-dot-6-7f1))

-   Asset - Database: Texture size increased on first build when \'Compress Textures/Assets on Import\' is enabled ([1397965](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-size-increased-on-first-build-when-compress-textures-slash-assets-on-import-is-enabled))

-   Asset Bundles: Asset Bundle size incrementally increases when updating the Unity Editor and rebuilding the Asset Bundle ([1391542](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-bundle-size-incrementally-increases-when-updating-the-unity-editor-and-rebuilding-the-asset-bundle))

-   Asset Bundles: Building process of the AssetBundles is slow when there is a huge filecount. ([1358059](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/building-process-of-the-assetbundles-is-slow-when-the-file-count-is-huge))

-   GI: If a user is experience lighting coruption they be may required to reimport due to a fix to which correctly fixes a Uv unwrapping issue (1330830).

-   IL2CPP: Build fails with \'artifacts/tundra.dag.json does not exist yet\' when using UnityEditor.InitializeOnLoadMethod in script ([1385676](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-fails-with-artifacts-slash-tundra-dot-dag-dot-json-does-not-exist-yet-when-using-unityeditor-dot-initializeonloadmethod-in-script))

-   Inspector Framework: LEGO microgame, missing dropdown from inspector Specific Action field ([1387037](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lego-microgame-missing-dropdown-from-inspector-specific-action-field))

-   Linux: Editor crashes at \"\_\_assert_fail_base.cold\" when opening a project (Linux) ([1375312](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-crashes-at-assert-fail-base-dot-cold-when-opening-a-project))

-   MacOS: On Mac Unity Editor crashes when docking one EditorWindow to the side of a docked window ([1397003](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-crashes-when-docking-one-editorwindow-to-the-side-of-a-docked-window))

-   MacOS: \[M1\] \"System is running out of memory\" error is thrown when using Profiler as a Standalone Process with Deep Profile turned on ([1386242](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/system-is-running-out-of-memory-is-being-thrown-when-using-profiler-as-a-standalone-process-with-deep-profile-turned-on))

-   Mesh: Creating a mesh in Play Mode causes an \"abnormal mesh bounds\" error when using UploadMeshData() ([1364263](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-to-create-a-new-mesh-in-real-time-with-the-advanced-method-on-webgl))

-   Metal: Consistent EditorLoop 5-10ms spikes when using Metal API ([1378985](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/consistent-gfx-dot-waitforpresentongfxthread-5-10ms-spikes-when-using-metal-api))

-   Metal: Editor crashes on BufferMetal::IsBusy after opening a Scene ([1405248](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-buffermetal-isbusy-after-opening-a-scene))

-   Mono: Editor crashes when coming back from Sleep mode ([1395629](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-coming-back-from-sleep-mode))

-   OpenGL: Unity crashes when entering \"-force-opengl\" or \"-force-glcore\" in the Advanced Project Settings ([1374768](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-entering-force-opengl-or-force-glcore-in-the-advanced-project-settings))

-   Profiling: Unity 2020.3.27f1 randomly hangs in GPU recorder code with \"Hold On\" dialog ([1400169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-2020-dot-3-27f1-randomly-hangs-in-gpu-recorder-code-with-hold-on-dialog))

-   Progressive Lightmapper: \[macOS\] BugReporter doesn\'t get invoked when the project crashes ([1219458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-bugreporter-doesnt-get-invoked-when-the-project-crashes))

-   Scene/Game View: Camera resolution is set to default when opening the Editor ([1378321](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-resolution-is-set-to-default-when-opening-the-editor))

-   Shadows/Lights: Scene is brighter in Standalone player if it was open in the Editor at build time ([1375015](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-is-brighter-in-standalone-player-if-it-was-open-in-the-editor-at-build-time))

-   Templates: Specific Actions dropdown tab does not appear when setting the Target of the Touch Trigger in the LEGO Template ([1390097](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/specific-actions-dropdown-tab-does-not-appear-when-setting-the-target-of-the-touch-trigger-in-the-lego-template))

-   Windows: Editor crashes or freezes with \'Copying file failed\' error when importing a file from WinRAR Archiver ([1325310](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-or-freezes-with-copying-file-failed-error-when-importing-a-file-from-winrar-archiver))

### 2020.3.30f1 Release Notes

#### Improvements

-   Asset Pipeline: Logging done in imports run in an import worker is now forwarded to the main editor log.

-   Asset Pipeline: Logging in import worker will now always log to local import worker log file.

-   Build Pipeline: Added an API to gather the lighting and fog modes used by the active scene.

-   Editor: Added a new API InternalEditorUtility.LoadSerializedFileAndForgetAsync which loads a serialized file on the preload thread.

-   Profiler: Added Profiler.EmitSessionMetaData api to pass generic metadata to the Profiler associated with profiling session.

-   Scene Manager: Added Developer-only toggle to view Preview Scenes on the hierarchy for debugging purposes.

-   Scene Manager: Added flags to support certain GameObject features in Preview Scenes (Events, GI Lights and Cameras).

-   Scripting: Added a new AsyncReadManager FileInfo() API to check for a file\'s existence and (if present) the file size.

-   Scripting: Added atomic safety handle boolean validation functions to AtomicSafetyHandle.bindings.cs

#### Fixes

-   Editor: Fixed incorrect JobsDebugger handling of C# \"readonly\" keyword.

-   Scripting: Fixed: Unity.IO.LowLevel.Unsafe.ReadStatus.Truncated result for completion of a truncated read. A truncated read occurs when an asynchronous file request attempts to read beyond the end of a file.

-   Scripting: Fixed: Unity.IO.LowLevel.Unsafe.ReadStatusExtension methods - Unity.IO.LowLevel.Unsafe.ReadStatusExtension.Complete() returns true on successful completion regardless of truncated file reads.

-   Scripting: Updated NativeArray and NativeSlice Enumerator MoveNext functions with a define conditional atomic safety handle boolean check to ensure that existing enumerators return false when MoveNext() is called instead of throwing an exception.

#### System Requirements

##### For development

**OS**: Windows 7 SP1+, 10, 64-bit versions only; macOS 10.13+. (Server versions of Windows & OS X are not tested.)

**CPU**: SSE2 instruction set support.

**GPU**: Graphics card with DX10 (shader model 4.0) capabilities.

The rest mostly depends on the complexity of your projects.

###### Additional platform development requirements:

-   iOS: Mac computer running minimum macOS 10.13+ and Xcode 9.0 or higher.

-   Android: Android SDK and Java Development Kit (JDK); IL2CPP scripting backend requires Android NDK.

-   Universal Windows Platform: Windows 10 (64-bit), Visual Studio 2015 with C++ Tools component or later and Windows 10 SDK

##### For running Unity games

Generally content developed with Unity can run pretty much everywhere. How well it runs is dependent on the complexity of your project. More detailed requirements:

-   Desktop:

    -   OS: Windows 7 SP1+, macOS 10.13+, Ubuntu 18.04+
    -   Graphics card with DX10 (shader model 4.0) capabilities.
    -   CPU: SSE2 instruction set support.

-   iOS player requires iOS 11.0 or higher.

-   Android: OS 4.4 or later; ARMv7 CPU with NEON support; OpenGL ES 2.0 or later.

-   WebGL: Any recent desktop version of Firefox, Chrome, Edge or Safari.

-   Universal Windows Platform: Windows 10 and a graphics card with DX10 (shader model 4.0) capabilities

-   Exported Android Gradle projects require Android Studio 3.4 and later to build

#### Package changes in 2020.3.30f1
