5.6.0b8 Release Notes (Delta since b7)
--------------------------------------

### Known Issues

*   2D: 2D Sprites cannot be dragged to the Scene view if the project is created in 3D. (863887)
*   Android: Profiler hangs after several seconds of connection (879843)
*   Android: When MuteOtherAudioSources option is disabled and there's no READ\_PHONE\_STATE permission, the Unity application running on Android 5.1 or older devices might not mute itself during an incoming phone call. This might cause rejections when submitting to Samsung app store.
*   Animation: Problems with Animator in 5.6.0 beta after upgrading project from 5.5.0p3 (864062)
*   Editor: Editor crashes on attempt to open 5.5 compatible audio project (880653)
*   Editor: Editor crashes when selecting GameObjects in the Hierarchy window. This can be worked around by deleting the Assets/Prefabs/Trees folder. (837840)
*   Editor: Editor does not start on Windows 7 without VisualStudio 2013 installed. Workaround is to install Microsoft Visual Studio Community 2015. (876231)
*   GI: Progressive Lightmapper crashes on certain Scenes during the bake when instances are moved (depending on timing). Fix coming soon.
*   IL2CPP: UnityEngine.TestRunner.dll and UnityEngine.PerformanceTesting.dll with dependencies included into empty build (879084)
*   Particles: Game crashes occur during Play mode when a Particle System is a sub-emitter of more than one other Particle System. (857065)
*   Scripting: An API Updater internal error "Recursion detected while updating scripts (assembly index: 4)" is thrown when updating scripts. Note that this occurs when importing some 5.4 projects directly into 5.6 beta. One workaround is to do an intermediate import/save into 5.5. (863941)
*   Services: Collab: Cannot update to latest revision if current revision has been archived and there is a conflict (857465)
*   VR: \[Daydream\] iOS is not supported with the current native integration, but will be available in an upcoming beta release.
*   VR: \[Daydream\] There is a memory leak when you exit and re-enter VR mode. This leak is on the native Google VR code and Google is actively working on fixing this. (859281)
*   VR: \[Daydream\] There is no native controller integration yet. For controller use, please use the Unity SDK provided by Google.
*   VR: \[Daydream\] You may notice that your Daydream VR display is dimmer than other VR devices. This is by design, as a means of prolonging battery life while in VR.
*   VR: `VRSettings.renderViewportScale` has unintended graphical effects when rendering sections of the screen at values less than 1. (851282)

### Features

*   Build Pipeline: Added BuildOptions.CompressWithLz4 which enables Lz4 compression of player's data for Standalone, Android and iOS platforms
*   Multiplayer: cleint websocket support for MacOS, Linux, Win platforms
*   Multiplayer: support flexible configured ack buffer (32, 64, 96 and 128 messages length)
*   Multiplayer: tread pool support for MacOS, Linux, Win platforms
*   Multiplayer: websocket ssl support for MacOS, Linux, Win platforms
*   VR: Native Cardboard support for iOS using OpenGL is now available.

### Changes

*   Scripting: The behaviour for `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnBeforeSerialize` and `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnAfterDeserialize` has changed when using `Instantiate` and `UnityEditor.PrefabUtility.CreatePrefab`. Now `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnBeforeSerialize` is called once on the original object and and `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnAfterDeserialize` is called once on the cloned object after all internal references have been updated.

### Improvements

*   Multiplayer: Extended network statistics available
*   Multiplayer: New Network Transport (bandwidth increased up to 10 times)
*   Physics: When using a CompositeCollider2D with Outline generation attached to a Dynamic Rigidbody2D, show information in inspector regarding physics properties.

### Fixes

*   Graphics: Fix crash where more than 16 terrains are used. (871261)
*   Particles: Collision planes could interact with other physics objects (865762)
*   Particles: Scale was not applied to the Shape Module of sub emitter systems in the "Local" and "Hierarchy" Modes (846521)

The following are changes and fixes to 5.6.0 features and regressions...
------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Fixes

*   Android: Fix crash when doing simultaneous SceneManager.LoadSceneAsync and Resources.Load (782183)
*   Graphics: fix crash in some circumstances if object disables renderer when culling updates visibility (849079)
*   Graphics: Fixed incorrect warning message shown on static batched objects with material that has instancing disabled. (N/A)
*   Graphics: Fixed the issue that Graphics.DrawMeshInstancedIndirect always uses the first submesh. (N/A)
*   IL2CPP: Allow the Unity Ads engine integration to work properly on iOS builds that are archived and uploaded to TestFlight. (874227)
*   iOS: Fixed Application.isShowingSplashScreen to return the correct state, and deprecated it in favour of SplashScreen.isFinished (824499)
*   iOS: Hide the status bar while playing movies with CancelOnInput or Hidden modes (871989)
*   iOS: UnityEngine.iOS.Device.SetNoBackupFlag can now be called from background threads (851113)
*   Kernel: Fixed issue when undoing the reverting of a prefab which added components with dependencies (such as ConfigurableJoint depending on RigidBody existing) (870498)
*   Particles: Fix for corrupted file error when loading a Particle System from an AssetBundle (864387)
*   Scripting: Fixed regression introduced for `ISerializationCallbackReceiver` when using `Instantiate` and `UnityEditor.PrefabUtility.CreatePrefab`. Now `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnBeforeSerialize` is called once on the original object and and `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnAfterDeserialize` is called once on the cloned object. (862879 825571)
*   TrailRenderer: Crash when using auto-destruct Trails (873889)
*   UI: Fixed issue that would prevent the text field input caret from updating when the virtual left and right arrow keys are pressed (850430)
*   VR: GLES2 Single Pass on Mali GPU black screen vrapi\_GetPredictedTracking: ovr->Destroyed (866228)
*   Web: Fix high CPU usage when aborting UnityWebRequest with custom download handler script (876027)
*   Web: Fix SSL communication on Windows Store apps using UnityWebRequest or WWW (874571)
*   Windows: Fixed building Windows Store player against Windows 10 "Creators Update" SDK. (876077)

5.6.0b8 Release Notes (Full)
----------------------------

### Known Issues

*   2D: 2D Sprites cannot be dragged to the Scene view if the project is created in 3D. (863887)
*   Android: Profiler hangs after several seconds of connection (879843)
*   Android: When MuteOtherAudioSources option is disabled and there's no READ\_PHONE\_STATE permission, the Unity application running on Android 5.1 or older devices might not mute itself during an incoming phone call. This might cause rejections when submitting to Samsung app store.
*   Animation: Problems with Animator in 5.6.0 beta after upgrading project from 5.5.0p3 (864062)
*   Editor: Editor crashes on attempt to open 5.5 compatible audio project (880653)
*   Editor: Editor crashes when selecting GameObjects in the Hierarchy window. This can be worked around by deleting the Assets/Prefabs/Trees folder. (837840)
*   Editor: Editor does not start on Windows 7 without VisualStudio 2013 installed. Workaround is to install Microsoft Visual Studio Community 2015. (876231)
*   GI: Progressive Lightmapper crashes on certain Scenes during the bake when instances are moved (depending on timing). Fix coming soon.
*   IL2CPP: UnityEngine.TestRunner.dll and UnityEngine.PerformanceTesting.dll with dependencies included into empty build (879084)
*   Particles: Game crashes occur during Play mode when a Particle System is a sub-emitter of more than one other Particle System. (857065)
*   Scripting: An API Updater internal error "Recursion detected while updating scripts (assembly index: 4)" is thrown when updating scripts. Note that this occurs when importing some 5.4 projects directly into 5.6 beta. One workaround is to do an intermediate import/save into 5.5. (863941)
*   Services: Collab: Cannot update to latest revision if current revision has been archived and there is a conflict (857465)
*   VR: \[Daydream\] iOS is not supported with the current native integration, but will be available in an upcoming beta release.
*   VR: \[Daydream\] There is a memory leak when you exit and re-enter VR mode. This leak is on the native Google VR code and Google is actively working on fixing this. (859281)
*   VR: \[Daydream\] There is no native controller integration yet. For controller use, please use the Unity SDK provided by Google.
*   VR: \[Daydream\] You may notice that your Daydream VR display is dimmer than other VR devices. This is by design, as a means of prolonging battery life while in VR.
*   VR: `VRSettings.renderViewportScale` has unintended graphical effects when rendering sections of the screen at values less than 1. (851282)

### Features

*   2D: Sorting Group:
    *   Sorts a group of Renderers (for instance, a character made up of a group of Sprite Renderers) as a whole, without any interleaving of other Renderers.
*   2D: Sprite Editor Window now supports Sprite outline editing to control Sprite Mesh generation.
*   2D: SpriteRenderer: Added support for 9-slice Sprite rendering.
*   AI: Low-Level API for NavMesh building:
    *   Create and update NavMesh data at runtime.
    *   Use multiple instances of NavMeshes.
    *   Control the life-time of the NavMesh instances.
    *   Create and manage NavMesh Build Settings for multiple agent sizes.
    *   Additional open-sourced components and examples available at: https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/NavMeshComponents
*   Android: Added target API level option to Android Player Settings in the Unity Editor.
*   Animation: Added tracking of Animator State Machine view positions.
*   Asset Import: Exposed `ModelImporter.useFileScale` in the Model Importer Settings panel.
*   Build Pipeline: Added BuildOptions.CompressWithLz4 which enables Lz4 compression of player's data for Standalone, Android and iOS platforms
*   Compute: Added support for Metal Compute (iOS/macOS).
*   Editor: Added TreeView IMGUI Control, which can display hierarchical data that can be expanded and collapsed. Additionally, it allows you to create list views and multi-column tables for Editor tools.
*   Editor: Exposed the following custom handle classes in UnityEditor.IMGUI.Controls: BoxBoundsHandle, CapsuleBoundsHandle, SphereBoundsHandle.
*   Editor: Interactive handles for editing primitive Collider types in the Scene view now all use the same logic:
    
    *   Drag a handle to expand the size only on that side.
    *   Hold to pin the center in place.
    *   Hold to scale the shape uniformly.
    
    These changes apply to BoxCollider, CapsuleCollider, SphereCollider, BoxCollider2D, CapsuleCollider2D, and CircleCollider2D.
    
*   Editor: Mac: Added experimental support for using the Metal rendering backend on the Editor. This is disabled by default; to enable it, go to Edit > Project Settings > Player > Other Settings and tick the **Metal Editor Support** checkbox.
*   Editor: Windows: All Visual Studio installs are now shown in the External Script Editor list.
*   Editor: Windows: Visual Studio 2017 installs with the Unity workload are now detected automatically and added to the External Script Editor list.
*   Facebook: Added "Facebook" as a new Build Target Platform. This allows you to publish your builds to Facebook using either WebGL or the Facebook Gameroom Windows app.
*   GI: Added Light Modes, which replace mixed mode lighting and provide flexible ways to merge baked and realtime shadows. As part of this:
    *   Added ability to bake shadowmasks.
    *   New Lighting window layout.
    *   Added Light Explorer window.
*   GI: Added new experimental feature: Progressive Lightmapper. This is a robust lightmapper based on path tracing, with progressive updates. It provides baked lightmaps and Light Probes, presents the first output quickly, and iteratively improves it over time.
    *   Global illumination is calculated at lightmap resolution.
    *   No dependency on Enlighten.
    *   Normal requirements regarding lightmapping UVs: non-overlapping UVs with small area and angle errors, and sensible padding between the charts.
    *   Texels visible in the Scene view are calculated first.
    *   Estimated time is provided in the progress bar.
*   Graphics: Added EncodeToEXR to Texture2D.
*   Graphics: Added HDR MSAA anti-aliasing support. HDR rendering and MSAA anti-aliasing now works as expected with forward shading.
*   Graphics: Added physically-based rendering Material validator. You can now validate Albedo and Specular values against acceptable ranges. Albedo values can also be validated against user-defined luminance ranges.
*   Graphics: Support for DrawMeshInstancedIndirect, where draw arguments are supplied from a ComputeBuffer.
*   Graphics: Support for Procedural Instancing, where instance data is supplied via a custom source in the Shader, rather than from Material Property Blocks.
*   Graphics: Vulkan rendering backend added for Android, Linux and Windows. It is not used by default yet; drag it to the top of Graphics API list in Player Settings (menu: Edit > Project Settings > Player) to use it.
*   IL2CPP: Added support for Windows Runtime when targeting Windows Store and Xbox One players with .NET 4.6 API Compatibility Level. See the Unity User Manual documentation on [IL2CPP](https://docs.unity3d.com/560/Documentation/Manual/IL2CPP.html) for more information on Windows Runtime support.
*   Multiplayer: cleint websocket support for MacOS, Linux, Win platforms
*   Multiplayer: support flexible configured ack buffer (32, 64, 96 and 128 messages length)
*   Multiplayer: tread pool support for MacOS, Linux, Win platforms
*   Multiplayer: websocket ssl support for MacOS, Linux, Win platforms
*   Particles: Added new Shape Module controls to support non-randomized particle emission.
*   Particles: Redesigned Burst Emission to support 8 bursts, and added burst repeat parameters.
*   Physics: Added new CompositeCollider2D component, providing the ability to merge together BoxCollider2D & PolygonCollider2D colliders.
*   Physics: Added `Physics2D.Distance`, `Collider2D.Distance` and `Rigidbody2D.Distance` returning new `ColliderDistance2D`.
*   Physics: Added `Physics2D.OverlapCollider`, `Collider2D.OverlapCollider` and `Rigidbody2D.OverlapCollider`.
*   Physics: Added `Rigidbody2D.attachedColliderCount` and `Rigidbody2D.GetAttachedColliders()`.
*   Physics: Enabled BoxCollider2D & EdgeCollider2D Edge Radius feature.
*   Physics: Physics Debug
    *   A tool designed to provide a visualization of what is going on in our physics middleware (PhysX), allowing you to quickly inspect the Collider geometry in your Scene, and profile common physics-based scenarios.
        *   Also serves as a profiling tool, because it can hide all sleeping Rigidbody components and show all concave Mesh Colliders.
*   Player: Added native Daydream integration as a VR target for Unity VR applications.
*   UI: Added new `AdditionalShaderProperties` to the Canvas.
*   Video: Added Video Player component and Video Clip Importer Asset Importer. They replace Movie Texture and its Importer (available with a legacy control). The workflow audio platform support and scripting API are due to be improved in the next alpha release.
*   VR: Added initial Vulkan support for OpenVR.
*   VR: Native Cardboard support for iOS using OpenGL is now available.
*   VR: Native Cardboard support for iOS using OpenGL is now available.

### Changes

*   Android: Buildpipe: Removed the AnyCPU option from .so files in Plugin Inspector.
*   Android: Incremented the minimum supported Android API from 9 (Gingerbread) to 16 (Jellybean).
*   Editor: Building in linear color space is no longer allowed for platforms that don't support it.
*   Graphics: Refactored camera render ordering code. When a Scene is rendered, it now figures out which cameras can share the same render target. The rules for this are:
    
    *   Cameras must use the same display to share the same render target.
    *   Cameras must share the same viewport.
    *   All cameras must have a depth buffer, or none of them must have a depth buffer.
    *   If the Scene is being viewed in VR, the cameras implicitly share the same render target.
    
    These cameras are then split into a stack, which is rendered into a shared Texture based on depth ordering. This Texture has the most common settings found in the cameras in the stack. The following rules also apply:
    
    *   If any camera wants MSAA, the Texture is an MSAA buffer.
    *   If any camera wants HDR, the Texture is an HDR buffer.
    *   If there are any deferred cameras in the stack, MSAA is disabled (MSAA is not compatible with deferred cameras).
*   Graphics: Removed MSAA from back buffer on most platforms. On iOS and Android, MSAA BB is still allowed. This is because these platforms have a large number of games with no Image Effects, and allowing MSAA BB helps to avoid extra blit. MSAA now requires a Render Texture. This is implicitly supported via the render stack mechanism. If you need MSAA, the target that is rendered to has MSAA enabled (as long as deferred rendering is not used in the stack).
    
*   Linux / SteamOS: Switched window management and input handling from X11 to SDL2 on Linux / SteamOS.
    
*   Scripting: Script serialization errors that were introduced in Unity 5.4 but did not always throw a managed exception, now always throw a managed exception in Unity 5.6.
*   Scripting: The behaviour for `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnBeforeSerialize` and `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnAfterDeserialize` has changed when using `Instantiate` and `UnityEditor.PrefabUtility.CreatePrefab`. Now `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnBeforeSerialize` is called once on the original object and and `ISerializationCallbackReceiver.OnAfterDeserialize` is called once on the cloned object after all internal references have been updated.
*   Shaders: Removed `glstate_matrix_mvp`, `glstate_matrix_modelview0`, `glstate_matrix_transpose_modelview0` and `glstate_matrix_invtrans_modelview0`:
    *   In order to use these matrices, use `UNITY_MATRIX_MVP`, `UNITY_MATRIX_MV`, `UNITY_MATRIX_T_MV` and `UNITY_MATRIX_IT_MV` instead.
    *   For better performance, always use `UnityObjectToClipPos` and `UnityObjectToViewPos` if you are transforming vertices into clip space and view space, respectively. Unity prints a warning message if it detects you using `UNITY_MATRIX_MVP` and `UNITY_MATRIX_MV`.
    *   Now that the transforming path has been unified, #pragma force\_concat\_matrices is obsolete.
    *   Tests show an improvement in CPU performance and a degradation in GPU performance. The difference, however, is only noticeable when vertex load is very high.
*   Shaders: Shader compilation now stops on the first error.
*   Windows: Windows 10 SDK is now the default SDK when building to Windows Store.
*   Windows: Windows Store: Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone 8.1 will be dropped after Unity 5.6. Unity 5.6 is therefore the last Unity release supporting these SDKs.
*   Windows Store: D3D is now the default build type when building for Universal 10 SDK.

### Improvements

*   2D: Axis Distance Sort: Added `CustomAxis` to `TransparencySortMode` of the Camera, to allow you to sort renderers against a preferred axis instead of just by depth from the Camera.
*   2D: The internal storage of Sprite data has been refactored to a more flexible storage structure. This is the precursor to upcoming 2D features. Textures will be re-imported when you open an existing project in Unity 5.6 for the first time.
*   Android: Added support for managed stack traces on Android with IL2CPP.
*   Android: Moved Android splash image to a Java implementation so that it is displayed quicker during engine loading.
*   Animation: Added a third spine bone called **UpperChest** to the humanoid rig.
*   Animation: Added performance improvements for selection and keyframe manipulation in Curve Editor.
*   Animation: Added tracking of Animator State Machine view positions.
*   Animation: Disabled auto-framing of AnimatorController when selecting states or transitions.
*   Asset Import: Significant performance improvements to DXT1, DXT5, BC4 and BC5 Texture compressors, resulting in faster Asset imports. Fixed cross-platform determinism of DXT1, DXT5, BC4 and BC5 compressed Textures. You now get the same compressed Texture regardless of the platform it's compressed on.
*   Audio: `AudioClip` is now always loaded on a separate thread, resulting in improvements to Scene loading time. This is because the rest of the Scene can be loaded while Audio Clips are decompressed. `AudioClip.loadInBackground` is now obsolete and no longer used.
*   Compute: Added ability to set up & dispatch compute shaders from `CommandBuffers`. See new `CommandBuffer` functions: `SetCompute*Param`, `DispatchCompute`, `CopyCounterValue`.
*   Compute: The ComputeShader Inspector now lists kernels, and compiled code shows disassembly on DirectX 11. The `UNITY_VERSION` macro is passed while compiling compute shaders, just like for regular shaders.
*   DX12: Reduced system and video memory usage.
*   Editor: Added interface support to `Selection.GetFiltered`.
*   Editor: Graphics device arguments now persist when you relaunch the Unity Editor.
*   Editor: Improved the performance of the Hierarchy view in the Profiler Window.
*   Editor: The Unity Editor's Game view window fully supports touch input on Windows when touch screen is available (for example, on a Surface Pro). Functions like `Input.GetTouch` should therefore start working.
*   Editor: Window layouts are now serialized as text.
*   GI: Added rgb9e5 float Texture format for precomputed realtime GI on all supported platforms. This format can be interpolated without artifacts. Unsupported platforms fall back to RGBM encoding, and can still have banding from interpolation.
*   GI: Added to ReflectionProbe: defaultTexture, defaultTextureHDRDecodeValues, textureHDRDecodeValues.
*   GI: The Enlighten solve type is now set to match the current lightmaps mode instead of always solving directional lightmaps. This is an optimization for Realtime GI with non-directional mode.
*   GI: Updated default shadow near plane offset.
*   GI: Upgraded Enlighten SDK to version 3.07p1. This should provide precompute time reductions, which is especially noticeable in the `CalculateSystemDependencies` step, as well as other steps which perform raytracing. Additional details:
    *   An issue has been fixed in baking when using Final Gather, which would result in wrong lighting when using transparent materials.
    *   An issue has been fixed in baking when using Final Gather, which would result in it ignoring the **Backface behaviour type** Material property.
    *   Fixed issue that prevented baked light masks working in conjunction with transparency Textures.
    *   Fixed a bug resulting in wrong lighting for SSD objects when using probes with non-default axes or SH coefficient orders.
    *   When baking direct probe lighting, the per-light option to disable direct lighting is no longer ignored.
*   GI: `usesRevertedZBuffer` is now exposed to `SystemInfo`.
*   Graphics: Added cube array Texture support to OSX Metal.
*   Graphics: Added new API: `SystemInfo.graphicsUVStartsAtTop`.
*   Graphics: Added `CommandBuffer` functions: `SetViewport`, `SetViewMatrix`, `SetProjectionMatrix`, `SetViewProjectionMatrices`.
*   Graphics: Added `RenderQueue.GeometryLast` enum value.
*   Graphics: Frame Debugger improvements:
    *   You can now Ctrl+Click on Texture Properties to display a larger preview (just like the Standard shader UI). This is also useful for viewing Cubemap Textures.
    *   ComputeShader dispatches now shows the compute shader, kernel and dispatch size used.
    *   The Shader properties tab is now the default (instead of Mesh preview).
    *   The Shader properties window now shows the `ComputeBuffer` properties that are used.
*   Graphics: Frame Debugger now gives you a reason when a draw call can't be batched with the previous one.
*   Graphics: GPU Instancing: a new workflow has been implemented. An **Enable Instancing** checkbox has been added to most of the Materials, including those using Standard Shaders.
    *   A "#pragma multi\_compile\_instancing" line is no longer needed in Surface Shaders. Instancing variants are automatically generated for Surface Shaders, unless you explicitly specify `noinstancing` in a `#pragma surface` line.
    *   Standard and StandardSpecular also have "#pragma multi\_compile\_instancing" built-in.
    *   A new checkbox **Enable Instancing** has been added to the Material Inspector. This must be checked for objects rendered with this Material to be instanced.
    *   SpeedTree Assets now print an error prompting you to regenerate the Materials when you enable the **Enable Instancing** checkbox.
    *   When building to players, instancing variants of a Shader are stripped away if no Material using this Shader enables instancing. A new property, **Global stripping control** has been added to Graphics Settings. Note that all existing projects that use instancing need to enable the **Enable Instancing** checkbox if the Material is intended to be used for instancing, including those for `DrawMeshInstanced`.
*   Graphics: HDR rendering supports R11G11B10 float formats in addition to FP16. This can be configured in Graphics Settings (Edit > Project Settings > Graphics) per platform and per tier.
*   Graphics: The `-gpu` command line argument is now supported in the Windows Store player
*   Graphics: `CommandBuffer` API improvements:
    *   More `CommandBuffer` APIs: `CopyTexture`, `EnableShaderKeyword`, `DisableShaderKeyword`.
    *   `CommandBuffer.GetTemporaryRT` got an `enableRandomWrite` argument.
*   IL2CPP: Generated C++ code now contains annotations of original C# source code, as long as PDB/MDB files accompanying the C# source code are present on the machine at conversion time.
*   Multiplayer: Extended network statistics available
*   Multiplayer: New Network Transport (bandwidth increased up to 10 times)
*   OSX: Added support for retrieving GPU memory size on Metal.
*   Particles: Added full support for multiple selection and editing of Particle Systems.
*   Particles: Gradient Editor now supports HDR colors when used in the Custom Data streams.
*   Particles: Huge performance improvement for particle collision against 2D Colliders.
*   Particles: Improved overlap solver for particle collision against 2D Colliders.
*   Particles: The UI for Custom Vertex Streams has been redesigned to allow greater flexibility over what data to send to the shader, and to add more control over how it is packed into the TEXCOORD channels.
*   Particles: You can now configure Custom Data via the Inspector using a new Module, instead of exclusively via script.
*   Physics: 2D contacts are now shown in the Inspector 'Info' rollout for Collider2D and Rigidbody2D.
*   Physics: Added a non-allocating way to retrieve contacts per Collider2D or Rigidbody2D using `Physics2D.GetContacts ()`, `Collider2D.GetContacts ()` and `Rigidbody2D.GetContacts ()`.
*   Physics: Added non-allocating overloads that use the new ContactFilter2D for Linecast, Raycast, BoxCast, CircleCast, CapsuleCast, OverlapPoint, OverlapCircle, OverlapBox, OverlapArea, OverlapCapsule, GetContacts & IsTouching.
*   Physics: New ContactFilter2D, allowing physics queries to filter by layer mask, Z depth, normal angle and trigger inclusion.
*   Physics: The internal 2D contact processing has been completely re-written, providing a more robust and reliable reporting of contacts.
*   Physics: When using a CompositeCollider2D with Outline generation attached to a Dynamic Rigidbody2D, show information in inspector regarding physics properties.
*   Profiling: Added `Profiling.Recorder` API, which allows you to get the accumulated frame time for the specific Profiler label in the Editor and Development Players.
*   Shaders: Added the ability to disable Shader pass per-material. See `Material.SetShaderPassEnabled`.
*   Shaders: Added `HLSLPROGRAM` shader snippet support. This is the same as CGPROGRAM, with one difference: HLSLSupport.cginc and UnityShaderVariables.cginc includes are not added automatically.
*   Shaders: Optimized in-Editor experience for Shaders with potentially massive variant counts (in the order of millions). Importing and first-time compiling them is much faster now.
*   Shaders: Preprocessor macros `SHADER_STAGE_VERTEX`, `SHADER_STAGE_FRAGMENT`, `SHADER_STAGE_DOMAIN`, `SHADER_STAGE_HULL`, `SHADER_STAGE_GEOMETRY`, and `SHADER_STAGE_COMPUTE` are now defined when compiling each shader stage.
*   Shaders: The .hlsl file extension is now recognized in the same way as .cginc. it is included in generated IDE projects, and opened same way from the Unity Editor.
*   Terrain: A warning box is shown if you try to assign a Texture that is not imported as a normal map to the \_\_Normal ma\_\_p slot of the Terrain Material.
*   Terrain: Terrain Inspector now remembers the last selected brush shape.
*   Terrain: Terrain LOD pre-computation is optimized and now runs faster. Specifically, `TerrainData.SetHeights` and setting the Size property are faster now.
*   VR: Added single-pass stereo support for Gear VR (using `GL_OVR_multiview`).
*   VR: Attached VR/AR devices now add their remote resolution to the Game view size's drop-down in the Editor.
*   Web: In `UnityWebRequest`, response code and headers are now available to scripts as soon as they are downloaded. Previously, they were only accesible after the whole download was complete.
*   Windows Store: C++ source code plugins can now be included directly from the generated Visual Studio solution. This is possible by adding the directory containing the source code to the list of include directories, and linking the DLL they get compiled in to the final game executable on the il2cpp scripting backend.
*   Windows Store: Significantly reduced the size of Windows Store support installers.
*   Windows Store: The amount of time the postprocessing player step takes when building project on the IL2CPP scripting backend has been significantly reduced.
*   Windows Store: Unity now uses a pre-built `MapFileParser` when building generated C++ code on the IL2CPP scripting backend, rather than building it on your machine on the fly.

### API Changes

*   Animation: Added to `AvatarMask`: `AddTransformPath`, `RemoveTransformPath`.
*   Animation: Added `AnimatorOverrideController.GetOverrides` and `AnimatorOverrideController.ApplyOverrides`. (752095)
*   Animation: Added `GetKeyLeftTangentMode`, `GetKeyRightTangentMode` and `GetKeyBroken` to the `AnimationUtility` API.
*   Animation: Deprecated `AnimatorOverrideController.clips`. (752095)
*   Animation: Moved `AvatarMask` from `UnityEditor.Animations` to `UnityEngine`.
*   Asset Import: Added `keepQuads` property to `ModelImporter`.
*   Asset Import: Added `RecalculateTangents` function to `Mesh`.
*   Asset Import: Added `weldVertices` property to `ModelImporter`.
*   Asset Pipeline: Added new API methods `AssetDatabase.GetImplicitAssetBundleName` and `AssetDatabase.GetImplicitAssetBundleVariantName`, which dynamically compute the name of the AssetBundle and AssetBundle Variant that a given Asset belongs to.(834008)
*   Audio: (As also mentioned under Improvements) `AudioClip` is now always loaded on a separate thread, resulting in improvements to Scene loading time. This is because the rest of the Scene can be loaded while Audio Clips are decompressed. `AudioClip.loadInBackground` is now obsolete and no longer used.
*   Build Pipeline: Added `SetApplicationIdentifier` and `GetApplicationIdentifier` methods to PlayerSettings (Edit > Project Settings > Player). These allow you to set the Bundle Identifier (Apple platforms) / Package ID (Android and Tizen) separately for each platform.
*   Build Pipeline: Changed `Application.bundleIdentifier` to `Application.identifier` and `PlayerSettings.bundleIdentifier` to `PlayerSettings.applicationIdentifier`. These now apply to the active target only. Use `PlayerSettings.SetApplicationIdentifier` to set it for any platform.
*   Editor: (As also mentioned under Features) Exposed the following custom handle classes in `UnityEditor.IMGUI.Controls`: `BoxBoundsHandle`, `CapsuleBoundsHandle`, `SphereBoundsHandle`.
*   Editor: Added IDisposable 'Handles.DrawingScope' struct for cleaner pushing/popping of 'Handles.matrix' and 'Handles.color'.
*   Editor: `Handles.DrawCapFunction` (and associated `Handles` functions expecting it) is now obsolete, and generates warning messages.
*   GI: Exposed baked Ambient Occlusion (AO), 'indirectAO' and 'directAO' to scripting API.
*   Graphics: Added array property getters (e.g. `GetFloatArray`) for `Material`, `MaterialPropertyBlock` and `Shader` classes.
*   Graphics: Added integer ('Shader.PropertyToID') overloads to 'Material.SetTextureScale' & 'SetTextureOffset'. (766076)
*   Graphics: Added property getters (e.g. `GetGlobalFloat`) for `Shader` class.
*   Graphics: Added to `CommandBuffer`: `SetGlobalDepthBias`, `BeginSample`, `EndSample` functions.
*   Graphics: Added `Graphics.ConvertTexture` function, for copying between Textures of different sizes/formats.
*   Graphics: Added `Graphics.DrawMeshInstancedIndirect` and its `CommandBuffer` counterpart.
*   Graphics: Added `List` overloads for array property setters for `Material`, `MaterialPropertyBlock`, `Shader` and `CommandBuffer` classes.
*   Graphics: Added `List` overloads for `Graphics.DrawMeshInstanced`.
*   Graphics: Added `Matrix4x4.LookAt` function.
*   Graphics: Added `SystemInfo.maxCubemapSize` API, analogous to `SystemInfo.maxTextureSize`. (852309)
*   Physics: Added `minMoveDistance` property to `CharacterController` script API.
*   Physics: Changed `Physics2D.minPenetrationForPenalty` to `Physics2D.defaultContactOffset`.
*   Physics: Exposed `Physics.ClosestPoint`. This computes the point on the surface of a given Collider that is closest to a specified location.
*   Physics: Exposed `Physics.ComputePenetration`. This computes the minimal translation required to separate the two given Colliders. It doesn't require the Colliders to be placed at the given pose prior to the test, so it is useful for writing custom character controllers.
*   SceneManager: `EditorSceneManager` now has a number of new events that developers can add delegates to. They are: `newSceneCreated`, `sceneOpening`, `sceneOpened`, `sceneClosing`, `sceneClosed`, `sceneSaving` and `sceneSaved`.
*   Scripting: Added new non-allocating accessors to `Mesh`. These accessors write into a user-specified `List`. The new accessors are `GetBindposes`, `GetBoneWeights`, `GetColors`, `GetIndices`, `GetNormals`, `GetTangents`, `GetTriangles`, and `GetVertices` (also being back-ported to 5.5.x).
*   Terrain: Added `TerrainChangedFlags` for use in 'OnTerrainChanged' message.
*   Terrain: Added `TerrainData.bounds` for retrieving local bounding box of the Terrain heightmap data.

### Fixes

*   AI: NavMesh is now merged correctly when scenes are merged using the SceneManager API. (800869)
*   Android: Editor: Enabled Undo for Android TV Banner. [(672169)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undo-is-ignored-when-applying-a-texture-to-icon)
*   Android: Fix to correctly repackage assets from aar files when building on Windows. [(852039)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/built-apks-with-android-library-dot-aar-use-backslash-file-separator-to-reach-file-in-res-folder)
*   Android: Fixed audio stutter when launching Android player from a notification from the lockscreen. (818174)
*   Android: Fixed auto-rotation on Android 4.1 and older. (853151)
*   Android: Fixed crash that would occur when instantiating a prefab with SkinnedMeshRenderer.UpdateWhenOffscreen enabled. [(869402)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-fatal-signal-7-sigbus-application-crash-if-instantiating-prefab-with-skinnedmeshrenderer-dot-updatewhenoffscreen-enabled)
*   Android: Fixed incorrect delta position and delta time calculation [(815918)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/remote-calculating-delta-position-manually-gives-different-results-between-unity-remote-and-on-built-project)
*   Animation: Added shift lock-axis when using the box tool in the curve editor.
*   Animation: Added validation for invalid Synchronized layer configuration. [(852149)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-timing-is-checked-in-animator-layers)
*   Animation: Added warning icon in the animator controller to inform user that a base layer with humanoid motion should preferably not have an avatar mask. (823794)
*   Animation: Corrected the default Transition Duration with empty states. [(853292)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-wrong-default-transition-duration-with-empty-states-or-blendshape-clips)
*   Animation: Enable 'ordered interruptions' in the transition inspector if source state is AnyState. [(808387)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/any-state-transitions-do-not-work-correctly-with-ordered-interruption)
*   Animation: Fix to clear curve editor selection after changing clip frame rate to avoid selection box ghosting.
*   Animation: Fixed a bug where deactivating a GameObject with an attached Animator might cause a crash. [(822232)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deactivated-gameobject-with-animator-occurs-crash)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue when playing back recorded interrupted transitions. [(863214)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/using-cinemadirector-because-of-mecanim-track-unity-crashes-in-mecanim-statemachine-startstate)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where an invalidly configured Humanoid rig with Optimize Game Objects would cause the configure button to disappear. [(827514)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/avatar-configure-button-disapears-with-ogo)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where animating the Z position of a RectTransform using the Animation Component would not move the Image. [(829159)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-animating-canvas-image-rect-transform-position-on-z-axis-transform-dot-position-does-not-get-updated)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where animator with animate physics would teleport objects. [(847015)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-doesnt-animate-physics-when-update-mode-is-set-to-animate-physics)
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where Runtime Animation Events added to a Legacy clip wouldn't be played. [(858511)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationevents-that-are-added-to-legacy-animationclips-generated-during-runtime-are-not-called)
*   Animation: Fixed animation import with custom frame rate. [(791385)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-sample-rate-of-animation-imported-to-unity-is-set-12-dot-5fps-if-lower-than-certain-number)
*   Animation: Fixed AnimatorControllerPlayable memory leak.
*   Animation: Fixed AnyState progression when changing state machine.
*   Animation: Fixed bug in BlendTree thresholds recomputation. [(777936)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blendtree-modifying-top-bound-of-1d-parameter-calculates-threshold-incorrectly)
*   Animation: Fixed bug in the ModelImporter animationclip automatic naming. [(768723)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/modelimporter-second-animation-clip-name-gets-index-plus-10)
*   Animation: Fixed case of animation window not refreshing after undo. [(863869)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undo-operation-of-deleted-key-frames-doesnt-refresh-animation-window-when-window-is-in-certain-position)
*   Animation: Fixed case of AnimationEvent not being fired on lower FPS. [(812917)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationevent-is-not-being-fired-on-lower-fps)
*   Animation: Fixed case of de-optimization of game object hierarchy messing up transform values. [(838015)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-deoptimize-transform-hierarchy-does-not-reset-scale-properly)
*   Animation: Fixed case of erroneous bounds being calculated for SkinnedMeshRenderer when optimizing game object. [(829264)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/optimize-transform-hierarchy-generates-different-skinned-meshrenderer-bounds-than-non-optimized-one)
*   Animation: Fixed case of interrupted transition on humanoid resulting in bad poses. (861266)
*   Animation: Fixed case of Motion properties not being available on some platforms. [(783535)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/accessing-animationclip-properties-in-runtime-throws-missingmethodexception-on-some-platforms)
*   Animation: Fixed case of OnStateExit callback not firing for interrupted transitions. [(826180)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mecanim-animation-when-an-interrupted-transition-occurs-the-onstateexit-for-the-next-state-currently-playing-is-never-called)
*   Animation: Fixed case of sprite preview not refreshing when changing animation clip in the animation window. [(839872)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-not-shown-in-dopesheet-when-selecting-animation-clip)
*   Animation: Fixed crash in the animation window when starting playback on invalid optimized game object hierarchy. [(865057)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-upgrading-from-5-dot-4-to-5-dot-5-unity-crashes-when-trying-to-play-animation-in-editor)
*   Animation: Fixed crash in the importer. [(861392)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-setting-avatar-type-in-onpreprocessanimation-of-an-assetpostprocessor)
*   Animation: Fixed crash when loading invalid animator setups with OptimizeGameObject on and no avatar. [(858677)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mecanim-unity-editor-crashes-in-deallocateavatarouputforbindings-runtime-slash-mecanim-slash-animation-slash-avatar-dot-cpp-on-load)
*   Animation: Fixed crash when receiving a null property modification in animation recording. [(832837)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-editor-crashes-when-changing-rotation-property-on-a-recttransform-in-animation-record-mode)
*   Animation: Fixed Crash when setting avatar type in AssetPostprocessor.OnPreprocessAnimation. [(861392)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-setting-avatar-type-in-onpreprocessanimation-of-an-assetpostprocessor)
*   Animation: Fixed erroneous animation clip range when changing sample rate. [(835553)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-incorrect-playback-range-after-changing-sample-rate)
*   Animation: Fixed erroneous euler value for first frame when recording animation in the animation window. [(839885)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/keyframe-at-frame-0-generated-incorrectly-when-rotating-pbject-with-child)
*   Animation: Fixed issue where GetNextAnimatorStateInfo was inaccurate when transitioning to self. [(834693)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getcurrentanimatorstateinfo-slash-getnextanimatorstateinfo-return-wrong-normalized-time-while-transitionning-to-self)
*   Animation: Fixed issue where keyframe flip manipulations could cause error messages.
*   Animation: Fixed issue where the "Samples" field would still be editable when selecting a read-only clip in animation window. [(850424)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-should-not-be-able-to-edit-samples-on-read-only-clip-in-aw)
*   Animation: Fixed issue where the Backspace/Delete key did not work in the avatar configuration transform inspector. [(837655)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-backspace-to-delete-a-value-in-transform-editor-of-configuration-deletes-joint-mapping)
*   Animation: Fixed issue where the Create Animation button didn't work for legacy animation components with null animation clips. [(863925)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/create-animation-button-is-not-working-for-legacy-animation-if-animations-size-is-more-than-0-and-no-animation-is-assigned)
*   Animation: Fixed key pasting issues in Curve Editor. [(859125)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/curveeditor-pasting-keys-in-curve-editor-paste-all-keys-instead-of-selected-keys)
*   Animation: Fixed locked inpsector issue when entering Avatar Configuration. (858947)
*   Animation: Fixed log error shown when adding a new keyframe for the position property in RectTransform. [(854795)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-adding-key-to-rect-transform-generates-an-error)
*   Animation: Fixed log error shown when changing the curve preset in the curve editor window for the model importer. (854799)
*   Animation: Fixed naming of new clips added in ModelImporter. [(768723)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/modelimporter-second-animation-clip-name-gets-index-plus-10)
*   Animation: Fixed performance issues in dopesheet editor with large keyframe selection. [(834557)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-selecting-multiple-keys-in-baked-animation-clip-slows-down-rendering-no-manip)
*   Animation: Fixed precision error when drag-and-dropping the blend value (i.e. the red ruler) in a BlendTree. [(803678)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/anim-blend-tree-preview-blend-control-red-line-click-offset)
*   Animation: Fixed problem where animation events were not being fired properly by Playables. [(847874)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/first-animationevent-on-a-looped-clip-is-skipped-after-the-first-cycle)
*   Animation: Fixed single key ripple manipulation in the curve editor and the dopesheet editor.
*   Animation: Fixed source of vertical and horizontal flips when using Box Tool with tangents set to Infinity. [(849656)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationwindow-curve-is-invisbile-and-isfinite-key-dot-value-assert-is-printed-after-flipping-the-curve-using-multi-key-editor)
*   Animation: Humanoid transforms are now stored before entering animation mode and restored when exiting animation mode.
*   Animation: Property renaming in the animation window now renames to full path instead of last game object.
*   Animation: Re-enabled recording in editor play mode. [(835544)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-no-longer-able-to-record-in-editor-play-mode)
*   Animation: Removed parameter filter when user adds a new animator controller parameter. [(847134)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adding-parameter-in-animator-controller-when-search-field-has-text-in-it-blocks-further-interaction)
*   Animation: The AnimationWindow now uses delayed int field for frames and samples.
*   Asset Import: Fixed a crash where importing an FBX where individual component X/Y/Z curves had different frame ranges. [(845966)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-slash-reimporting-specific-fbx-file-crashes-editor)
*   Asset Import: Fixed an issue where deleting asset labels manually from .meta files would not be picked up by the editor. [(793711)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/modifying-asset-meta-files-directly-does-not-rebuild-library)
*   Asset Import: Fixed an issue where importing multiple DCC scenes would result in the contents of the resulting prefabs randomly switching places. [(858080)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-multiple-mb-maya-binary-files-are-imported-the-imported-files-do-not-match-up-correctly-with-the-original-files)
*   Asset Import: Fixed crash in ReplacePrefab when target GameObject was destroyed in OnWillSaveAssets. [(829453)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-collectobjecthierarchywithhideflagfilter-if-gameobject-is-deleted-in-onwillsaveassets-callback-during-replaceprefab)
*   Asset Import: Use SketchUp face layers to build mesh that only includes visible faces [(867782)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sketcup-object-which-is-in-the-invisible-layer-imported-to-unity-becomes-visible)
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed a regression where AssetDatabase.SaveAssets wouldn't save changes made to a prefab inside OnPostprocessAllAssets. [(830110)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetdatabase-dot-saveassets-not-saving-changes-made-to-a-prefab)
*   Audio: Fixed issue which prevented streaming audio loading on 32-bit Apple devices which were upgraded to iOS 10. [(832578)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-audio-with-streaming-load-type-does-not-play-on-some-devices-running-ios-10)
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed an issue which caused editor to think the build succeeded and open explorer window to the output build location when it fails due to a managed exception thrown in the build process (843528)
*   Build Pipeline: VR Splash Screen texture will no longer be included when building a project for a non-VR platform. [(823167)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-standalone-vr-splash-image-is-included-into-ios-builds)
*   Editor: Arguments into MakeBezierPoints are now validated. Previously invalid arguments could result in a crash. [(835775)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-beziercurve-normalpoint-when-calling-unityeditor-dot-handles-dot-makebezierpoints-with-a-division-of-0)
*   Editor: Find Reference in Scene now works on packed sprites. [(805431)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spritepacking-find-reference-in-scene-does-not-work-on-packed-sprites)
*   Editor: Fix for issue where ScriptUpdater would corrupt scripts containing invocations to Mesh.Optimize(). [(827796)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apiupdater-removing-mesh-dot-optimize-removes-other-lines-too)
*   Editor: Fix for issue where ScriptUpdater would crash or fail to update code in NGUI AssetStore package. [(833958)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-does-not-exist-in-the-current-context-when-importing-ngui)
*   Editor: Fix to denormalize animation curve presets when loading. [(800805)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/curves-saved-curve-preset-is-scaled-vertically-when-using-editorgui-dot-curvefield)
*   Editor: Fixed a crash when calling Lightmapping.BakeMultipleScenes from game code in the editor. [(837091)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/opening-a-scene-crashes-the-editor-while-rendering-game-view-camera-s)
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where GameObjects could not be dragged from the Hierarchy view while the view is filtered. This prevented (among other things) creation of prefabs by dragging an object from the Hierarchy to the Project view. [(813000)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-create-prefab-from-hierarchy-search-results)
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where prefab creation would break if user had "Verify Saving Assets" enabled in preferences. (834347)
*   Editor: Fixed an issue with built-in window layouts where default game view scale on retina was incorrect. This only affects cases where default layouts were missing. (838720)
*   Editor: Fixed ArgumentOutOfRangeException triggered when closing tabs in dock area. (840151)
*   Editor: Fixed bug causing script execution order to be incorrectly set when removing a preceding script from the list and the text field is active. [(778802)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/removing-a-script-from-the-execution-order-manager-changes-the-value-of-other-script)
*   Editor: Fixed case of AnimationCurve preview in Inspector not being up-to-date after stopping play mode. [(817999)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationcurve-inspector-doesnt-revert-animation-curve-field-appearance-after-exiting-play-mode)
*   Editor: Fixed case of editing keyframe values in curve editor affecting alignment of subsequent labels. [(829228)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/edit-keyframe-in-curve-editor-breaks-alignment-for-labels)
*   Editor: Fixed case of Handles.DrawCamera() affecting camera rect in game view. [(834204)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-scaling-camera-view-which-was-created-by-using-handles-dot-drawcamera-the-game-view-does-not-clear-up-in-play-mode)
*   Editor: Fixed case of harmless errors being thrown when extra extension DLLs like UnityEditor.iOS.Xcode.dll are used in the project. [(778581)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/referencing-unityeditor-dot-ios-dot-extensions-dot-xcode-throws-exception-after-reimporting-assets)
*   Editor: Fixed case of overflow text being clipped in Preferences window. (714757)
*   Editor: Fixed case of Player Settings not getting focus on inspector when opened from the Build Settings window. (720992)
*   Editor: Fixed case of undoing collider handle changes exiting edit mode. [(837844)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undoing-collider-edits-in-scene-view-makes-handles-disappear)
*   Editor: Fixed Crash in HandleSetTransformFatherDragAndDrop when dragging a Tree prefab to the hierarchy [(775353)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-handlesettransformfatherdraganddrop-when-dragging-a-tree-prefab-to-the-hierarchy)
*   Editor: Fixed hardware cursor not automatically updating in game view when changed from Player Settings inspector on OS X. (718766)
*   Editor: Fixed incorrect handle placement for OcclusionPortal in scene GUI after undo.
*   Editor: Fixed incorrect indentation of TextAreaDrawer. [(804863)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scrollbar-inspectors-textarea-attributes-scrollbar-doesnt-cover-entire-text)
*   Editor: Fixed insertion marker positioning in BuildSettings window. [(839855)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/moving-scenes-in-builds-settings-is-not-displayed-properly)
*   Editor: Fixed issue when appending onto iOS builds when Unity version contains special characters (such as dashes).
*   Editor: Fixed issue where attempting to create an editable copy of a font from the Inspector would not work. [(857155)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fonts-createeditablecopy-does-not-create-an-editable-copy)
*   Editor: Fixed issue where Canvas size would change when moving the Game View. [(851777)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/canvas-size-changes-when-game-window-is-being-moved)
*   Editor: Fixed issue where Handles.Button would capture a right click but would not release it, resulting in non-responsive scene view. [(527425)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-control-doesnt-work-after-handles-dot-button-grasps-a-mouse-click-event)
*   Editor: Fixed issue where it was not possible to check out only the asset file in Inspector if the meta file was already checked out (and vice-versa). (717021)
*   Editor: Fixed issue where the timeline time scrubber in AnimatorStateTransition inspector did not release hotControl when a mouse up event occurred outside the control rect. [(834214)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tabs-become-inactive-when-transition-in-animator-has-exit-time-enabled-and-time-indicator-is-moved-to-the-right)
*   Editor: Fixed issue whereby it was not possible to undo changing application icon. [(672169)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undo-is-ignored-when-applying-a-texture-to-icon)
*   Editor: Fixed issue with ScriptUpdater fully qualifying member access in some scenarios. [(838681)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/script-updater-updating-incorrectly-when-an-object-is-named-like-a-class-and-the-class-becomes-static)
*   Editor: Fixed keyboard input when there are multiple GameViews open. [(767109)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/having-two-game-view-windows-second-window-never-receives-input)
*   Editor: Fixed MissingReferenceException when deleting a child particle system while ParticleSystemWindow is open.
*   Editor: Holding CTRL/ALT no longer stretches the Game View when zooming it with the scroll wheel. [(851617)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-window-gets-stretched-and-not-zoomed-when-zooming-with-scroll-wheel-while-ctrl-is-pressed)
*   Editor: OcclusionPortal component now supports multi-edit
*   Editor: Reduced heap allocations when rotating view in Scene window. [(828286)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gc-allocation-for-each-editor-frame-when-moving-scene-view)
*   Editor: Renamed 'Preload shaders' to 'Keep loaded shaders alive' since that is what the option does does. Also added a \* to said option and to 'Preloaded Assets' since they are shared.
*   Editor: The correct color is now used for "Shaded Wireframe" mode in scene view. [(836408)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wireframe-overlay-color-is-not-used)
*   Editor: Visual indication/feedback is now always shown when attempting to save Scene while in playmode. [(568837)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unclear-feedback-message-when-saving-a-scene-in-paused-playmode)
*   GI: Fix to ensure that scenes are ordered correctly, to patch in their lightmaps into the common LightmapSettings. [(812486)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mse-built-lightmaps-are-not-applied-due-to-positioning-in-hierarchy)
*   Graphics: Added support for combining lightmapped meshes using Mesh.CombineMeshes. [(821775)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/combining-lightmapped-meshes-causes-uv2-to-change-and-that-causes-incorrect-lightmap-to-be-displayed)
*   Graphics: Fix crash where more than 16 terrains are used. (871261)
*   Graphics: Fixed a path issue when loading GI data. [(858292)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightmaps-not-loaded-in-standalone-player-when-loading-scene-through-assetbundle-regression-from-5-dot-4)
*   Graphics: Fixed issue where instantiating a non-readable texture would crash Unity at Texture2D::AwakeFromLoad. [(843287)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/instantiating-non-readable-texture-crashes-unity-on-texture2d-awakefromload)
*   Graphics: Fixed light probes visualisation in linear rendering. (862215)
*   Graphics: Frame Debugger: shader property values originating from MaterialPropertyBlocks are now displayed properly.
*   Graphics: Frame Debugger: temporary render textures are now kept alive longer while frame debugger is active, for less confusing shader property display.
*   IL2CPP: Added support for C# exception filters. [(831493)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/does-not-build-and-shows-il2cpp-error-when-building-for-webgl)
*   IL2CPP: Fixed a crash with advertisingIdentifier in iOS Simulator. [(869305)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-il2cpp-simulator-unityengine-dot-ios-dot-device-dot-advertisingidentifier-crash-at-string-dot-cpp-74)
*   iOS: A warning is now issued when CameraDepthTexture uses the wrong sampler type. [(786455)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-api-provides-32-bit-depth-texture-when-a-16-bit-texture-is-expected)
*   iOS: A warning is now issued when SV\_POSITION is used as input in vertex shader. [(809737)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-wrong-vertex-buffer-positions-used-in-particle-rendering-with-gles-3-dot-0)
*   iOS: Added missing icon slots for Spotlight and Settings. [(815299)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-unity-ios-icon-slots-missing)
*   iOS: Build flags are now prefixed with $(inherited) in Xcode project to improve compatibility with CocoaPods.
*   iOS: Fix to hide the 'Picture in Picture' button in the movie player when played using Handheld.PlayFullScreenMovie. [(739557)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-unusable-picture-in-picture-multitasking-button-when-playing-with-handheld-dot-playfullscreenmovie)
*   iOS: Fixed inability to change Launch Screen Mode in Player Settings. [(869283)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-cant-change-launch-screen-mode-in-player-settings)
*   iOS: Fixed support for Movie textures on simulator.
*   iOS: Scripting profiler memory info is only available on development player configurations. The scripting profiler will now report when memory information is not available. [(769072)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/internal-profiler-in-ios-doesnt-show-scripting-memory-information)
*   Kernel: Json serialisation now supports correct parsing of NaN and +/-Inf. [(829753)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/jsonutility-dot-fromjson-handles-nan-value-of-float-slash-double-incorrectly)
*   OSX: Fixed case of DNS resolution taking very long when not resolved in UnityWebRequest and WWW. [(825679)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unitywebrequest-lag-when-dns-cant-resolve-domain-name-given-in-url)
*   Particles: Added Undo support for action of creating a sub-emitter.
*   Particles: Collision planes could interact with other physics objects (865762)
*   Particles: Fix to include light ranges in particle bounding box, in order to avoid lights popping in/out at camera edges. [(860441)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-the-particle-system-has-point-light-settings-and-it-comes-out-of-camera-frustum-area-the-point-light-doesnt-light)
*   Particles: Fixed alignment of sub-emitter + button. (826058)
*   Particles: Fixed issue where deactivating the SubEmitter module makes SubEmitter particles stop previewing in the Scene view upon any change. [(764588)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-deactivating-the-subemitter-module-makes-subemitter-particles-stop-previewing-in-scene-view-upon-any-change)
*   Particles: Fixed previewing issues when Particle Systems are used in LOD Groups. (700523)
*   Particles: Scale was not applied to the Shape Module of sub emitter systems in the "Local" and "Hierarchy" Modes (846521)
*   Particles: The component Reset button now resets Renderer Module settings. (715605)
*   Particles: Updated the tooltip comment to make it clear that Texture colors are not read when using Mesh Shape Modes. [(860694)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/add-clarification-in-use-mesh-colors-tooltip-that-texture-colors-are-ignored)
*   Physics: Deleting a Collider2D now triggers an OnCollisionExit2D or OnTriggerExit2D appropriately. [(637042)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerexit2d-is-not-happening-when-other-colliding-object-is-beeing-destroyed)
*   Physics: Fixed an issue where create was being called when shared mesh was set on disabled object. [(835703)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-sharedmesh-in-disabled-mesh-collider-turns-collider-on-even-if-component-remains-disabled)
*   Physics: Fixed issue where a Collider2D contact did not trigger a collision/trigger callback. [(681844, 729084)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics2d-velocity-of-the-rigidbody-changes-without-oncollision-methods-being-called)
*   Physics: Fixed issue where cloth actor was still updated by physx, despite being asleep. [(841299)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cloth-cloth-keeps-updating-when-deactived)
*   Physics: Resizing a Collider2D now results in collision/trigger callbacks if other Collider2Ds enter/exit the collider being resized. [(773735, 822612)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerexit2d-is-not-called-when-resizing-collider)
*   Playables: Fixed a crash where UnloadUnusedAssets would unload Animation Clips used by AnimationClipPlayables. [(854615)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-using-resourses-dot-unloadunusedassets-with-animators-and-re-enabling-gameobjects-crashes-unity)
*   Player: Fixed case of incorrect language being returned when system language was Spanish(Argentina). [(820162)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-uwp-incorrect-application-dot-systemlanguage-returned)
*   SceneManager: Fixed issue whereby GetSceneManagerSetup would silently ignore untitled scenes. [(827525)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/restore-scene-setup-which-has-no-active-scene-throws-invalid-scenemanagersetup-error-message)
*   SceneManager: Fixed issue whereby SceneManager was not initialized when OnEnable was called for editor windows during editor startup. [(825237)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mse-scene-management-is-not-initialized-when-onenable-is-called-for-editor-windows-on-starting-unity)
*   SceneManager: Scenes are now marked Loaded when sceneLoaded is invoked. [(818573)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onsceneloaded-always-called-with-scene-dot-isloaded-equals-equals-false)
*   Scripting: Emit warning when adding a ScriptableObject to an asset if class name does not match file name. [(829259)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scriptableobject-is-created-without-an-error-when-script-and-class-names-mismatch)
*   Scripting: Fixed issue where operator != for Mesh, Rect, Quaternion, Vector2, Vector3 and Vector4 would incorrectly return false if either side contained a NaN value.
*   Scripting: Improve unhelpful "iterator==end" error message when reading serialized metadata. [(833245)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-throws-iterator-equals-equals-end-error-when-reading-serialized-file-metadata-after-loading-a-scene)
*   Scripting: OnDisable is now called on shutdown for scriptable object assets.
*   Shaders: Fixed Editor crash on Windows when viewing a Material using a shader which contains a pre-processor #error token. [(824020)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crashes-when-applying-a-shader-with-number-error-directive-to-a-material)
*   Shaders: UI-DefaultFont shader is no longer in the list of "always included shaders" in graphics settings by default (it is not needed by UI). [(784192)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/always-included-shader-ui-slash-default-font-no-longer-needed)
*   SpeedTree: Fixed an issue where modifying the scene in edit mode could cause SpeedTree trees to play wind animation. [(830097)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/speedtree-regression-wind-animates-speedtrees-when-toggling-some-terrainsettings-or-moving-camera-viewpoint)
*   SpeedTree: Fixed an issue where SpeedTree billboards had z-fighting when affected by mutiple forward lights. [(840206)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendering-z-fighting-artifact-on-speedtree-billboards-when-using-point-light)
*   Terrain: Fixed an issue where adding a 5th texture to a terrain with custom material would result in an assertion. [(845404)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-error-if-using-custom-material-for-terrain-and-adding-a-5th-texture-during-runtime)
*   Terrain: Fixed an issue where switching between tree painter and other painting tools caused the wrong brush texture to be used. [(840337)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sceneview-sculpting-previously-chosen-brush-is-not-rendered-correctly-after-switching-terrain-components-tabs)
*   Terrain: Fixed an issue where terrain brush was not rendered if terrain transform position has a Y value greater than 50. [(852049)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/painting-brush-is-not-rendered-after-raising-terrain-on-y-axis)
*   Terrain: Fixed buggy behaviors when multiple terrain inspectors are present. [(836778, 847863)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-editor-two-separate-brushes-are-rendered-after-adding-second-inspector-tab-in-editor)
*   UI: DockArea position is now calculated correctly, which fixes issues with canvas sizing. [(819960)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-elements-flicker-with-editor-on-a-second-monitor-and-game-window-on-the-main-retina-display)
*   UI: Fix to prevent two 'Aspect Ratio Fitter' components from being set on one object. [(792793)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-freeze-by-having-2-aspect-ratio-fitter-components-in-a-gameobject)
*   UI: Fixed blurry text when width and height are set to uneven numbers. [(826409)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-text-is-blurry-with-its-width-and-height-set-to-uneven-numbers)
*   UI: Fixed case of animation lagging, caused by an uninitialized member variable. [(821319)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animations-lagging-sometimes-text-dot-getcomponent-unityengine-dot-ui-dot-text-not-being-showed)
*   UI: Fixed crash caused by the use of GetComponent inside the ToString method. [(828981)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/eventsystems-editor-crashes-when-debugging-mouse-input-handling-methods)
*   UI: Fixed crash in RectTransform, triggered because it would send messages on the loading thread. [(824011)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-is-permanently-corrupted-after-copying-canvas-element)
*   UI: Fixed issue where a child of a mask which has a disabled mask would not mask correctly. (829416)
*   UI: Fixed issue where RT cameras would not emit a UI element unless there was another camera present. [(827532)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-space-render-texture-renders-worlds-space-canvas-in-front-of-everything)
*   UI: Fixed issue with incorrect parameter order when calculating scrollRect offset. [(827908, 829518)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/content-of-scrollview-not-bouncing-back-when-reaching-the-top-slash-bottom)
*   UI: Fixed issue with Material inspector not showing for UI eleements.
*   UI: Fixed memory leak caused by disabled objects not getting removed from the render queue. [(819470)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/googlevr-canvas-are-allocating-memory-and-do-not-release-it-when-using-vr-cameras)
*   UI: Fixed performance issue in FontUpdateTracker. (Note that the case number referenced isn't fully fixed yet, but the performance issue is.) (794089)
*   VR: Added support for restoring the device render and viewport scales after unplugging the device and plugging it back in. [(795561)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vr-add-support-for-setting-renderscale-before-texture-creation)
*   VR: Fixed a crash in the Editor that was triggered by setting the VRSettings.enabled flag to true. (836878)
*   Web: Fixed case of harmless 'Coroutine continue failure' error being thrown when stopping a WWW coroutine. [(780200)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/www-getting-error-message-coroutine-continue-failure-when-stopping-a-www-coroutine)
*   Web: Fixed case of UnityWebRequest not working in Editor when not in play mode. [(859924)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unitywebrequest-hangs-when-accessing-an-url-that-redirects-to-another-url)
*   Web: WWW.size will now report AssetBundle size when loading from cache. [(693430)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/www-dot-size-not-working-using-loadfromcacheordownload)
*   WebGL: Fix to correctly report AudioSource time when doppler effect changes pitch. [(817986)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audiosource-returns-wrong-time-when-rotating-camera)
*   WebGL: Fixed capturing of mouse moved events from web page. [(831631)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mouse-input-cant-drag-html5-sliders-in-embedding-page)
*   WebGL: Fixed issues relating to reading into floating point textures.
*   Windows: Fixed issue where Application.systemLanguage would return the region language and not the UI language that the user is using. [(820871)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-dot-systemlanguage-returns-original-language-even-after-changing-it)
*   Windows: Fixed player deployment to network path. [(842379)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standalone-deploying-to-a-remote-folder-fails)
*   Windows: UWP fixes:
    *   Fixed issue where WWW would throw away response headers when server returns 401.
    *   Improved WWW consistency with the Editor. [(815255)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-wp8-dot-1-www-throws-http-headers-away-when-server-returns-http-401)
*   Windows Store: Fixed case of incorrect resolution being reported when the composition scale changed and the game window was minimized. [(832104)](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-changing-display-makes-initial-resolution-to-be-multiplied-by-scale-factor)
*   Windows Store: Fixed cases where Editor profiler was sometimes failing to connect to an application running on remote device (e.g. Windows Phone). (833525)