### Known Issues

*   Editor: Bogus warnings about certain lights and deferred lighting requiring Unity Pro.
*   Editor: The ‘Other Settings’ section of Player Settings generates errors in the console and some settings are not drawn. The workaround is to change the player settings in Beta 3 and then re-open the project in Beta 4.
*   Editor: Game View is black when using Image effects and Anti Aliasing.
*   Launcher: Sign in state is not remembered when cookies are flushed
*   License: Return license does not work if you manually activated your license
*   License: Wrong message when having invalid serial number or license.
*   VR: Judder on OSX
*   VR: OSX Standalone 32-bit does not work, use 64-bit.
*   VR: Health and Safety warning flickers. Either physically tap the HMD after 5 seconds to dismiss, or permanently disable the warning at your own risk.

### Features

*   UNET: Peer discovery in local network.
*   Windows Store Apps/Windows Phone: Added support for UNET.

### Changes

*   Input: Default binding for 'Fire3' in new projects changed from Left Cmd to Left Shift, for benefit of Windows user experience.

### Improvements

*   BuildPipeline: There will be fewer differences between the exported data files from subsequent builds of your project when using the same version of Unity. For best results, close Unity and delete your project's Library folder before making an important build.
*   Editor: Hex Color Field added to Color Picker (video: http://files.unity3d.com/mads/HexColorField.swf).
*   Editor: Added extensive support for copy/pasting colors: Copy/paste from focused color field, from context menu for color field, from color picker (with no text selected) and from hex field.
*   Scripting: Added Vector2.Reflect function.
*   XboxOne: IPv6 lookup and DNS support added for C# code.
*   XboxOne: Lightmap files are now split up per level and put in separate chunks in the package manifest.
*   XboxOne: Worker threads created by Unity's core systems (Physics, AI) will no longer run on cores 0 and 1, which are reserved for the Rendering thread and Unity's main thread respectively. This will be a performance gain in most cases by avoiding thread context switches.
*   XboxOne: More comments have been added to the default package manifest.
*   Plugin Inspector: You can now select multiple plugins and change compatible platforms. Note - you cannot yet change per platform settings if multiple plugins are selected.

### Fixes

*   Editor: Fix text fields content switch between build settings in some cases.
*   Editor: Fix GUIStyle errors on import (delay GUIStyle initialization to OnGUI).
*   Editor: Fix layers popup showing in the top left of the window and not below layers button.
*   Editor: Fix player settings window accessing non-initialized property.
*   Editor: Update m\_GUIDToPath when moving asset to path name with different case.
*   Input: Input.mousePosition no longer clamped to old window size when a Windows Standalone player window is resized.
*   Input: Input.GetJoystickNames() on Windows Standalone no longer returns a single blank entry when no controllers are present.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Prevent a stack overflow in il2cpp.exe when it converts have an infinitely recursive generic type with an array generic argument.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Implemented Assembly.CodeBase by returning the value of AssemblyName.Name.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: AudioMixerSnapshot.TranslateTo no longer throws null reference exception on IL2CPP.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed TerrainData.GetAlphaMaps crashing on IL2CPP.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Fix overflow arithmetic instruction handling.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Generate C++ code which will compile when a nested generic passes the maximum depth for recursive nested generics.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Prevent an iOS player which does not use any code from the UnityEngine.Networking.dll assembly from crashing at startup while trying to call that code.
*   Linux: Fix OS version check when lsb\_release isn't present.
*   OSX: Fix "Default is native resolution" setting.
*   OSX: Fix resolution update race when resizing window.
*   Shaders: Fix standard shader cutout rendering being wrong when rendering with shader replacement.
*   Shaders: Fixed HLSL log10() translation into OpenGL/Metal platforms.
*   UI: PointerEventData.worldPosition and .worldNormal set correctly when handling a middle-mouse or right-mouse event,
*   UI: Fix regression where deactivated UI components did not disappear.
*   Windows Store Apps: Fixed crash if using an unsupported image effect.
*   XboxOne: Removed additional null character in persistantDataPath.
*   XboxOne: Systems that use a cache now use the console's T: drive.
*   XboxOne: special characters are removed from Product name, avoiding use of characters the packaging tools don't like.
*   XboxOne: Crash when using Clear Depth Only, support for capturing RenderTextures of different bit depths.
*   XboxOne: Fixed compute shader UAV buffer read/write and memory access.
*   XboxOne: Application.OpenURL is now implemented on Xbox One. Calling it will open the Internet Explorer App.
*   XboxOne: Launch range is now capped to the number of scenes rather than scenes+1.
*   XboxOne: Lightmaps for scene 0 are now included in the package manifest.