### Changes

*   Mecanim: Changes in the behaviour for humanoid controller with generic clip animating a human transform. Before the generic animation for the Human transform had a higher priority than the human animation. Now the Human animation always have the highest priority for humanoid rig overriding any generic animation for this transform, you should see a warning in the inspector if such case is detected with the name of the faulty animation clip and which transform is affected.

### Improvements

*   Graphics: Command Buffers can be set on Lights, see LightEvent enum and Light.AddCommandBuffer.
*   XboxOne: Unity is now built with the April 2015 XDK. You will need to install the April 2015 XDK on your PC and use the same or later recovery on your console.
*   XboxOne: Added functions to XboxOnePLM (GetActivationUri, GetActivationTileId, GetActivationArguments) to retrieve cached values. We still recommend listening to OnActivationEvent in your Start() frame, and processing them that way, but this provides an alternative for last-provided values.
*   Editor: When creating new clip from animation window, default to previously used path
*   Windows Standalone: Hint to AMD driver that discrete GPU should be used, rather than integrated GPU.
*   Animation Window: Dialog for the generated clip path/name when GameObject is initialized for animation.

### Fixes

*   Graphics: Fixed AfterDepthTexture and AfterDepthNormalsTexture command buffers to be executed after the texture is set as a shader property.
*   Shaders: Fixed shader compilation warnings not being shown if there are no compilation errors.
*   Shaders: Fixed some loops being miscompiled for DX9.
*   OSX: Prevent idle sleep while the player is active.
*   2D: Do not display sprite mesh wireframe in scene view under any circumstances.
*   2D: Show both original and atlas format in the preview for packed sprite sheet.
*   2D: Revert button will reset value correctly in sprite editor window.
*   2D: Apply button now work correctly between sprite editor window and sprite inspector.
*   2D: Display dialog box to confirm apply changes when there is a sprite mode changes while opening up Sprite Editor Window.
*   2D: Using trim button in Sprite Editor window will correctly enable Apply/Revert button.
*   2D: Slicing by grid in Sprite Editor Window will now limit the input values to the size of the texture.
*   2D: Undo will not undo applied Sprite Editor Window changes.
*   2D: Always prompt user to apply unapplied texture setting before opening up Sprite Editor Window.
*   2D: Height and Width of a sprite rect in Sprite Editor Window will no longer be 0.
*   Animation Window: Context menu for events.
*   Animation Window: Overlapping events stack up properly.
*   Animation Window: Dragging sprite(s) to empty clip.
*   Animation Window: Changing frame rate works as expected.
*   Animation Window: Keyframe of missing sprite no longer has weird visual offset in the dopesheet.
*   Animation Window: Adjusting tangents no longer move the playhead.
*   Animation Window: Adjusting tangent from smooth to flat is always saved.
*   Animation Window: Record mode is correctly cancelled when non-animated object is selected or new scene is created.
*   Animation Window: Prevent dragging other object types to Sprite curve.
*   Animation Window: Disable renaming items in animation window add property popup
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Forward declare empty types (created to end infinite recursion) that are used as method arguments.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Fix IL2CPP failing to convert an assembly which contains Ldtoken instruction on field that is declared in a generic type. This issue affected CSVHelper.dll plugin.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Fix crash related to arrays of Enums on 64-bit.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Return the correct number of write and error sockets from the Socket::Select method.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Allow Encoding.GetEncoding to return the correct enc.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Match the behavior of the Mono scripting backend by not stripping the Animation code from the engine when code stripping is enabled.
*   iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed code generation for unsafe fixed arrays.
*   Windows Phone: Fixed anti aliasing for render textures on phones with software navigation buttons.
*   Windows Phone/Store: Fix assembly converter crashing while postprocessing player if non-matching PDB is found.
*   Windows Phone/Store: Fix assembly converter crashing when a type generic class derives from a generic class which has a generic parameter that is array of generic parameters of the derived class (e. g. class Derived : MyBase).
*   OpenGL: Fix crash in vertex stream management.
*   Linux: Fix applying vsync and antialiasing changes without changing quality level
*   Linux: Support more standard screen resolutions.
*   MonoDevelop: Fixed issue with Attach to Process dialog making MonoDevelop unresponsive on OSX.
*   MonoDevelop: Fix issue with file tabs being unresponsive after using auto-hide of panels.
*   Serialization: Reapplied part of non-deterministic material serialization fix, but without increasing memory usage during building.
*   XboxOne: GI files that are part of the mainData will be included in the package manifest.
*   UNET: UNet latency and packet loss can cause exceptions.
*   WebGL: Fix usage of custom templates on windows.
*   Profiler: Fix receive buffer error and hang connection when transferring large chunk of profiler's data.
*   Asset Management: Unity packages now include .meta files for folders, allowing plugin settings for OS X native plugins to be transferred correctly.
*   Mecanim: Fixed update issue with Animator parameter window when going into playmode. Parameter list in the window was not updated anymore.
*   Mecanim: Fixed CycleOffset range for animator state, valid range is between 0 and 1
*   Mecanim: Fixed crash when calling AnimationClip.events from script.
*   Mecanim: Adding a new curve to an AnimationClip with AnimationClip.SetCurve now update correctly the animation length.
*   Mecanim: Fixed Animator exception (m\_IsVisibleInScene && IsInScene()) == m\_IsVisibleInScene) when disabling a game object with a disabled mesh renderer.
*   Animation Window: Copy-pasting keyframes updates the scene and value fields immediately.
*   Animation Window: Copy-pasting keyframes from set of multiple curves to another set of multiple curves works.
*   Animation Window: Disable locking feature when non-animated object is selected.
*   WebGL: Fix dependency on having cmake and Visual Studio installed on windows to build for WebGL.
*   Profiler: Fix pause when selecting specific frame during Playmode in the Editor.
*   Mecanim: Fixed Blend Tree parameter doesn't get updated in the graph view when changing the blend tree parameter.
*   VR: Device is now initialized before start and awake.
*   VR: Fix issues when camera or parent objects are scaled.
*   VR: Fix performance issue on certain hardware.
*   Editor: Fix Player Settings UI truncation.
*   Windows: Standalone player will not crash on Windows 8.1 or earlier if Direct3D 12 is chosen as the desired graphics API. Instead it will fall back to either Direct3D 11 or 9.

### Known Issues

*   Editor: Game View is black when using Image effects and Anti Aliasing.
*   Launcher: Sign in state is not remembered when cookies are flushed.
*   License: Return license does not work if you manually activated your license.
*   VR: Judder on OSX.
*   VR: OSX Standalone 32-bit does not work, use 64-bit.
*   VR: Health and Safety warning flickers. Either physically tap the HMD after 5 seconds to dismiss, or permanently disable the warning at your own risk.