### Improvements

*   iOS: Make WWW.text to actually contain error response in case of non-200 status.
*   WebGL: Added WebGLInput.captureAllKeyboardInput API to allow web page content to get keyboard input.

### Changes

*   Samsung TV: Users are now able to set the system language via SamsungTV.SetSystemLanguage. Users will need to fetch the system language via Samsung's GSP API plugin.
*   Xbox One: Unity is now built using the June 2015 QFE 1 XDK. You will need to have this XDK installed on your PC and use the matching or a later recovery.

### Fixes

*   ([701873](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/resources-dot-load-works-much-slower-on-project-built-with-unity-5-compared-to-unity-4)) - Android: Fixed performance regression in Resources.Load.
*   ([703999](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/png-files-are-no-longer-compressed-in-android-from-5-dot-1-onwards)) - Android: Fixed texture compression setting for RGBA textures.
*   ([694503](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetbundles-gameobjects-in-a-scene-loaded-from-an-assetbundle-lose-their-references-if-the-assetbundle-has-two-scenes)) - Asset Loading: Fixed missing references when scene is loaded from an asset bundle which contains multiple scenes.
*   ([707079](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity5-buildpipeline-dot-buildassetbundles-crashes-editor)) - AssetBundle: Fixed the crash when a scriptable object is referenced from the scene.
*   ([683134](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetbundles-bundle-with-packed-textures-includes-source-textures-in-addition-to-the-atlased-version)) - AssetBundle: Fixed the issue that AssetBundle with packed textures includes source textures in addition to the atlased version.
*   (673296) - Editor: Enabling Script Only Build option will only affect platforms that allow the option.
*   (707688) - GI: Fixed crash when building lighting.
*   (690395) - Graphics: Added extra protection against depth buffer in editor windows being accidentally disabled.
*   ([697054](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-editorutility-dot-compresstexture-function-does-not-work-imported-texture-corrupted-error-gotimgref)) - Graphics: Fixed a crash compressing an already compressed texture in script.
*   (678429) - Graphics: Fixed an issue where setting RenderSettings.reflectionIntensity via script had no effect on the scene.
*   ([700698](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/atc-texture-compression-quality-on-os-x-is-worse-than-on-windows)) - Graphics: Fixed artifacts in alpha channel of ATC-compressed RGBA textures when using Mac OS X Editor.
*   (662018) - Graphics: Fixed swizzling of BGRA32 texture data on D3D11 and Xbox360.
*   ([681662](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/materials-using-sprites-slash-diffuse-becomes-semi-transparent)) - Graphics: Switching shaders in material inspector should reset material's render queue to default.
*   (701319) - Graphics: When using COLORMASK and D3D9, the mask was not correctly set for MRT render targets.
*   ([693316](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/static-batching-and-assetbundle-export-shift-lightmap-uvs)) - Graphics: Configurable vertex compression to fix lightmap UVs shifting.
*   (691477) - Graphics: Fixed crash calling GetPixels with a 0x0 texture
*   (697178) - Input / OSX standalone: Mouse buttons are registered when configuring input settings.
*   (704815) - Input: Fixed touch input hanging a Windows application if a second 'touch window' is created in a plugin.
*   (704335) - Inspector Functionality: Fixed component Help buttons on OS X.
*   ([711284](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-assemblyname-dot-getpublickeytoken-returns-17-bytes-instead-of-8)) - iOS/IL2CPP: Allow the AssemblyName::GetPublicKeyToken method to return an array of only eight bytes.
*   (689976) - iOS/IL2CPP: Corrected an intermittent hang which could occur in the garbage collector.
*   (709995) - iOS/IL2CPP: Corrected a problem with the generated C++ code which caused the C++ compiler error: "Member reference base type 'intptr\_t' (aka 'long') is not a structure or union" when unsafe C# code was used to index into an array of pointers to structures.
*   (712713) - iOS/IL2CPP: Ensure methods needed for enum arrays are converted.
*   (708876) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed binary operations using mixed integer types.
*   (770440) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed bug in Boo script related to generic interface methods.
*   ([689586](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cultureinfo-dot-getcultures-culturetypes-dot-neutralcultures-returns-null-when-built-with-il2cpp-on-ios)) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed CultureInfo.GetCultures().
*   (none) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed marshaling code for IntPtr parameters marked with \[Out\] attribute.
*   ([708527](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-doesnt-call-appdomain-dot-unhandledexception-when-fast-but-no-exceptions-is-set)) - iOS/IL2CPP: If "Fast but no Exceptions" is selected, any managed exception which escapes out of managed code will cause the AppDomain.UnhandledException event to be executed and application will abort (this is the same behavior as the Mono scripting backend).
*   (676797) - iOS/IL2CPP: Implemented the IsTransparentProxy icall, which always returns false.
*   (705751) - iOS/IL2CPP: Implemented the previously unsupported AppDomain::InternalGetDefaultContext and AppDomain::InternalGetContext icalls.
*   (none) - iOS/IL2CPP: Improved performance of 'is' operator, 'as' operator, and casting in some cases.
*   (711712) - iOS/IL2CPP: Prevent the following error from il2cpp.exe at conversion time: "Attempting to constrain a value of type 'X' to type 'Y'." for two different types X and Y.
*   (none) - iOS/IL2CPP: Properly look up a type using the Type.GetType(string) method during a case-insensitive search.
*   ([706601](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/100-percent-cpu-usage-when-using-fallback-characters-from-system-font)) - iOS: Fixed a regression that caused very poor performance of trying to load non-existing system fonts.
*   (709024) - iOS: Fixed crash accesing WebCamTexture videoRotationAngle and videoVerticallyMirrored before it is fully inited.
*   ([709063](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios7-unity-does-not-stay-in-landscape-in-the-ios-task-switcher)) - iOS: Fixed snapshot creation (when going to background) on pre-ios8.
*   (650630) - Mac OS X Standalone: Fixed stripping of debug symbols in release player builds.
*   ([705342](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-animationutility-dot-seteditorcurve-is-several-orders-of-magnitude-slower-in-unity-5-dot-1-than-in-5-dot-0)) - Mecanim: Fixed performance regression for AnimationUtility.SetEditorCurve().
*   ([693714](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-metal-incorrectly-compiled-metal-shader-there-is-no-cast-for-different-types)) - Metal: Fixed shader translation of matrix+scalar, matrix-scalar, matrix/scalar operations.
*   (\]693714\](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-metal-incorrectly-compiled-metal-shader-there-is-no-cast-for-different-types)) - Metal: Fixed some issues with shader translation of matrices with different precision.
*   (none) - Networking: Fix for llapi statistic function + new statistic function GetNetworkLostPacketNum().
*   (none) - Networking: Timing service is working now.
*   (none) - OS X: Fixed building on OS X El Capitan.
*   ([706330](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multi-display-application-becomes-unresponsive-in-fullscreen-mode-if-moved-to-another-display-than-it-was-initially-launched-o)) - OSX standalone: Fixed mouse input and rendering issues after the application is moved to a different screen and is made fullscreen.
*   ([703073](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerstay-children-object-trigger-colliders-are-not-reacting)) - Physics: Fixed an issue where OnTriggerStay would not be called on children in compound colliders.
*   (none) - Samsung TV: Added missing Indian character sets to 2015 TV.
*   ([695246](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/managedplugins-crash-after-recompile-when-using-external-dll)) - Scripting: Fixed potential crashes during domain reloads when user code throws NullReferenceException in AppDomain.DomainUnload / AppDomain.ProcessExit events.
*   (643440) - Serialization: Fixed incorrect clamping of LayerMask when set through SerializedProperty.intValue.
*   ([706380](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/allegorithmic-substance-on-a-light-source-cookie-causing-compiled-app-crashes)) - Substance: Fixed crash with BakeAndDiscard ProceduralMaterials.
*   (none) - Tizen: Fixed corrupted audio.
*   (none) - Tizen: Fixed errors when building projects that contain spaces in the path.
*   (693283), (672115) - UI: Fixed issue in UI components Slider, Outline, Shadow & Position as UV1 not updating when their values are animated.
*   (none) - UnityAnalytics: Remote config fix added.
*   (none) - WebGL: Allow Type.GetType(string) and its overloaded methods to work without Exception Support set to Full. IL2CPP: Properly look up a type using the Type.GetType(string) method during a case-insensitive search.
*   ([700861](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pressing-backspace-on-a-webgl-build-will-crash-the-app-in-chrome-and-opera)) - WebGL: Fixed backspace key navigating away from page in Chrome.
*   ([705045](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-input-input-dot-getmousebutton-stays-true-when-double-clicked-in-the-build)) - WebGL: Fixed mouse button state after double click.
*   (711745) - Windows Store Apps: Application.isMobilePlatform will now return true.
*   ([710069](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-data-corruption-in-playerprefs-after-updating-app-built-with-newer-editor-version)) - Windows Store Apps: Fixed incorrectly reported PlayerPrefs corruption after upgrading to Unity 5.1.
*   (708668) - Xbox One: Fixed instances where Compute Shaders would not compile.
*   (705618) - Xbox One: Fixed spelling errors in ESRB ratings strings in the Player Settings.
*   (701308) - Xbox One: Level and asset files are paired correctly in the auto-generated package manifest.
*   (none) - Xbox One: Mono: Double traverse object count to avoid stack overflow when freeing huge amounts of objects.

### Known Issues

*   VR: Recommended to stay on 5.1.2f1 for Virtual Reality supported projects. There is a bug where images are displayed without stereoscopic depth to the headset in this patch. This will be fixed in 5.1.2p2 due next week.

Choose the appropriate installer following the appropriate links at the top of this page.

Also included below are the md5sum and file size in order to verify the full installers have been downloaded correctly. If your installer doesn’t work or reports errors it is possible that your installer is incomplete.

Revision: 4b35e09f2de6

#### Size & md5sum for Mac

Component

md5sum

Size (bytes)

UnityDownloadAssistant-5.1.2p1.dmg

a0abcdc115bb810f660744de9b7a0f41

2493486

Unity-5.1.2p1.pkg

9fede837fb2b6c8c82e94cc35cfb2382

1931534143

Examples-5.1.2p1.pkg

7454ee875e12338c986e90c6c55218d0

353559310

StandardAssets-5.1.2p1.pkg

37758f5c192213a03d1abfeb5aeb03ab

212371476

WebPlayer-5.1.2p1.pkg

14fc62adf6bb3cb4a0a016b15f5d2eb1

2787457

#### Size & md5sum for PC

Component

md5sum

Size (bytes)

UnityDownloadAssistant-5.1.2p1.exe

400688c2a9ba294beb2b585d930820e7

653664

UnitySetup32-5.1.2p1.exe

66638eb16a07b94e886345a440e648c8

1357976192

UnitySetup64-5.1.2p1.exe

a9eb5a25b6c12695a38bdbee9d942690

1368469144

UnityExampleProjectSetup-5.1.2p1.exe

fcb6dceba56e154527650cc191540aee

295381384

UnityStandardAssetsSetup-5.1.2p1.exe

557d9c414a7357ef81a62807349c6d79

212902136

UnityWebPlayerDevelopment-5.1.2p1.exe

a717a0fbb56aef447f2cbacb2427a515

7364072