### Known Issues

*   Connect: 'Go to Dashboard' link for Multiplayer lead to Cloud Build
*   Editor: Crash in 64 bit Editor when using Lavasoft's webcompanion (and other proxies). 32 bit builds work.
*   Editor: Crash if hidden game object is part of the scene and Play is chosen, or scene is closed.
*   Editor: Applying Prefab changes creates duplicate of prefab in hierarchy
*   Mac: Clicking on the Assets/GameObject/Component main menu items causes Unity to crash

### Change

*   Graphics: Material.CopyPropertiesFromMaterial also copies shader keywords and render queue now.

### Improvement

*   Audio: Audio file size display is inconveniently only displayed in bytes.
*   Audio: Improved preview rendering of audioclips, especially for clips that are very short.
*   Audio: Improved the inspector of the AudioMixer performance parameters.
*   Audio: One-shot sounds now also contribute to the data read by AudioSource.GetAudioData/GetSpectrumData.
*   Mecanim: Added AnimationClipPlayable.speed to the API

### Fixes

*   Android: Fixed crash affecting some PowerVR 544 devices
*   Android: IL2CPP - Fixed compilation on paths with spaces
*   Android: Stripping - don't strip AssetBundle class or it removes LoadAssetAsync
*   Android: WWW - report HTTP status and response in case of failure
*   Audio: Fixed AudioSource inspector not updating to show new pitch value when this is set from script.
*   Audio: Fixed occasional crash at editor shutdown.
*   Audio: Fixed occasional crashes that could occur with non-blocking sounds if the audio source was stopped right after being started.
*   Audio: Fixed some memory leaks.
*   Audio: Fixed undo of AudioMixerGroup colour changing and Solo/Mute/Bypass toggling.
*   Audio: Transition to null snapshot in AudioMixer was crashing editor
*   Graphics: Fixed bug in ES 3 shader code generator that caused clipping problems in UI shaders
*   Graphics: Fixed material keywords and renderQueue not copied over by new Material(material) constructor and Material.CopyPropertiesFromMaterial.
*   Graphics: Fixed MSAA initialization on older devices which only support multisampled\_render\_to\_texture
*   Multiplayer: Fixed MatchMakingClient constructor generating an error when created outside the main thread
*   Multiplayer: Fixed NetworkServer.ReplacePlayerForConnection not setting up ownership of the new player object properly
*   Multiplayer: Fixed NetworkServer.Spawn failing silently when the server is not active.
*   Multiplayer: Fixed NetworkServer.Unspawn not allowing objects to re-spawned.
*   Multiplayer: Fixed NullReferenceException when a client disconnects after the player object was deleted

### The following are changes and fixes to 5.2 features and regressions...

### Fixes

*   Graphics: Fixed 5.2 crash that happened with some shaders when shadows are being used.
*   Mecanim: Fixed crash when disabling GameObject in OnExitState
*   Mecanim: Fixed crash with empty controller
*   Mecanim: Fixed disabled Animator advancing time
*   Mecanim: Fixed LiveLink issues
*   Mecanim: Fixed performance regression
*   Mecanim: Fixed TransitionPreviewer trying to fire AnimationEvents
*   Native Plugin API: Removed IUnityApplication interface.
*   Reflection Probes: Disable blend distance UI when not using deferred shading.
*   Windows Store: Enabeld GPU profiler on Windows 10 universal apps
*   Windows Store: Fixed back button handling in Windows 10 universal apps
*   Windows Store: Fixed Handheld.Vibrate on Windows 10 universal apps
*   Windows Store: Fixed Memory usage display in Windows 10 universal apps
*   Windows Store: Fixed Screen.dpi in Windows 10 universal apps
*   Windows Store: Fixed SDK specific plugins get put into wrong folders on Windows 8.1 universal apps
*   Windows Store: Significantly reduced memory usage of Windows 10 universal apps when running on ARM device. This brings it in line with memory usage on Windows 8.1 applications
*   WP8: Fixed crash on pause/resume.