### Known Issues

*   Connect: Home/Connect Window: Network Reliability issues on bad networks
*   UnityAds: 'Go to Dashboard' link navigates to incorrect url and gives the impression that the user is not logged in
*   WP8: Cannot build projects [(714079)](http://fogbugz.unity3d.com/default.asp?714079)

### Features

*   Application.UnloadLevel  
    Unloading scenes is now possible while the game is running. References to lightmaps are cleared but you have to call Resources.UnloadUnusedAssets(); to actaully unload them. Enlighten data is unloaded immediately.  
    This feature is especially useful in conjunction with Lightmapping.BakeMultipleLevels(string\[\] scenes);
*   Audio: Spatialization API (updated SDK and example on https://bitbucket.org/Unity-Technologies/nativeaudioplugins)
*   New low-level native plugin API.
*   Physics: Expose impulse applied at contact (see Collision.impulse)
*   Windows 10 Universal apps now support x64.

### Changes

*   GI: Set default BounceScale to 1.
*   Removed hexadecimal color string support from Color and replaced with ColorUtility.
*   Improvements
*   Audio: Finalized Spatialization API (updated SDK and example on https://bitbucket.org/Unity-Technologies/nativeaudioplugins)
*   GI: Allow ambient intensity higher than 1.
*   GI: The size of the last lightmap is now reduced to pack the instances more tightly and not waste space.
*   Graphics: Add SetUVs to Mesh API, it takes a UV channel, and a List of either Vector2, Vector3, or Vector4 as arguments
*   Graphics: Added CommandBuffer.IssuePluginEvent(callback, eventId) to allow invoking a specific callback in a specific native plugin.
*   Graphics: Added linear rendering mode to new OpenGL back-end on desktop.
*   Graphics: Memory saving for meshes with < 300 vertices if dynamic batching is off.
*   Graphics: New GL.IssuePluginEvent(callback, eventId) override allows invoking a specific callback in a specific native plugin.
*   IL2CPP: Improve performance of 'is' operator, 'as' operator, and casting in some cases.
*   IL2CPP: Properly look up a type using the Type.GetType(string) method during a case-insensitive search.
*   iOS: Added build number to Player Settings.
*   iOS: Added support of asset tags and folder references to the Xcode API
*   Mecanim: BlendTree Api now publishes useAutomaticThresholds
*   Particles: Mesh particles now support the Texture Sheet Animation settings
*   Physics: Renamed 'CollisionDetectionMode2D.None' to 'CollisionDetectionMode2D.Discrete' (Will be auto-updated).
*   Reflection Probes: Make deferred probe blend distance configurable
*   Shader: Added finalgbuffer and finalprepass modifiers. They work in the same way as finalcolor does, but are used by the deferred and prepass base paths respectively for altering what would be written into the gbuffer.
*   Shader: decal:add surface shaders now generate code for deferred and legacy deferred paths if finalgbuffer and finalprepass modifiers are specified.
*   Shader: Now skip\_variants directive skips user variants as well.
*   Terrain: Now terrain renders in deferred and legacy deferred path.
*   UI: Add callback to MaskableGraphic for when it becomes culled via the 2d culling API
*   UI: Make the default value for a slider / scrollbar be 0
*   UI: Remove (Pro Only) from UI shaders as they can be used on any version of Unity since 5.0
*   WebGL: Allow Type.GetType(string) and its overloaded methods to work without Exception Support set to Full.

### Fixes

*   Android: Added API level 22 to the minSdk list
*   Android: Audio - Fixed issues on GearVR when the device does not report FEATURE\_AUDIO\_LOW\_LATENCY
*   Android: Editor - fix GLES31+AEP player settings
*   Android: IL2CPP - fixed compilation when path has whitespaces
*   Android: JNI - fixed long data type
*   Editor: Automatically checkout ProjectSettings/ProjectVersion.txt if needed.
*   Editor: Clear old main menus on Windows
*   Editor: Dirty materials when fixing HDR texture to ensure previews are updated
*   Editor: Fix 'Timestamps and assets out of sync' error when renaming a folder outside of Unity and deleting an asset inside of it.
*   Editor: Fix disabled scrollbar in lighting window lightmaps tab
*   Editor: Fix non character keys being mixed up with character keys on shortcuts.
*   Editor: Fix Null reference exception on the Inspector
*   Editor: Fixed Gradient not updating when an Undo is performed.
*   GI: Ambient GI value not changing based on disabled realtime/baked GI.
*   GI: Fixed crash in CreateSnapshotForReflectionProbe when trying to rebake reflection probes. Show message to user that she should bake a snapshot first.
*   GI: Fixed environment reflection cubemap getting unloaded after the scene was loaded using Application.LoadLevel for scenes that used the Auto lighting build mode.
*   GI: Fixed lightmap shader variant stripping for realtime lightmaps. Now each lightmaps mode (non-directional, directional and directional specular) variant can be picked for baked and realtime GI separately. Please review your settings if you selected a specific lightmaps mode variant in the Graphics Settings to make that mode work for realtime lightmaps.
*   GI: Fixed UV packing for baked UVs not filling the 0-1 space (smaller or bigger). Fixes a bunch of issues where one object with stray UVs could overlap other objects and cause dark spots. Also makes the resolution assigned to each object work much more reliably if that object's unwrap is not filling the 0-1 space and also when its bounds are non-square. Please review the resolution on your instances for baked lightmaps.
*   GI: Lightmap snapshot gets cleared when clearing GI Cache.
*   Graphics: Apply hard limit on font size of 500 in more places than just font importer.
*   Graphics: Fix CaptureScreenshot with letterboxed editor game view (5.2 regression).
*   Graphics: Fixed a shader compiler error on OpenGL ES platforms where dot() between a vec3 and a float would fail to add an upcast.
*   Graphics: Fixed BGRA texture format on OpenGL ES 3.0
*   Graphics: Fixed CaptureScreenshot on DX11 when using non-native fullscreen resolution.
*   Graphics: Fixed crash while using -force-gles on MacOSX
*   Graphics: Fixed editor rendering black views when running with OpenGL ES 2.0
*   IL2CPP: Allow the AssemblyName::GetPublicKeyToken method to return an array of only eight bytes.
*   IL2CPP: Correct a C++ compiler error in generated code: "No matching function for call to 'il2cpp\_codegen\_raise\_exception'".
*   IL2CPP: Correct an intermittent hang which can occur in the garbage collector.
*   IL2CPP: Correct be problem with the generated C++ code which causes the C++ compiler error: "Member reference base type 'intptr\_t' (aka 'long') is not a structure or union" when unsafe C# code is used to index into an array of pointers to structures.
*   IL2CPP: Fix binary operations using mixed integer types.
*   IL2CPP: Fix bug in Boo script related to generic interface methods.
*   IL2CPP: Fix codegen issue when using a field type a struct that has no instance fields.
*   IL2CPP: Fix CultureInfo.GetCultures()
*   IL2CPP: Fix marshaling code for IntPtr parameters marked with \[Out\] attribute.
*   IL2CPP: If "Fast but no Exceptions" is selected, any managed exception which escapes out of managed code will cause the AppDomain.UnhandledException event to be executed and application will abort (this is the same behavior as the Mono scripting backend).
*   IL2CPP: Implement the previously unsupported AppDomain::InternalGetDefaultContext and AppDomain::InternalGetContext icalls.
*   IL2CPP: Prevent the exception "ArgumentException: Value does not fall within the expected range." during a call to the JoinMulticastGroup method.
*   IL2CPP: Prevent the following error from il2cpp.exe at conversion time: "Attempting to constrain a value of type 'X' to type 'Y'." for two different types X and Y.
*   iOS: Fixed a regression that caused very poor performance of trying to load non-existing system fonts
*   iOS: Fixed a regression which caused appending builds with native plugins to fail
*   iOS: Fixed a regression which disables appending builds in folders more than one level away from the project folder .
*   iOS: Fixed stripping of GameCenter social platform
*   Linux: Fix button down reports when querying any joystick and multiple joysticks are connected.
*   Linux: Fix key release regression.
*   Mecanim: Fixed a bug where a state machine moved to another state machine would disappear.
*   Mecanim: Fixed Animator.speed set in Start() not working.
*   Mecanim: Fixed Blend tree max/min thresholds not being updated when changed through dragging on the graph in the inspector.
*   Mecanim: Fixed broken BlendTree slider with some BlendTree configuration.
*   Mecanim: Fixed error message when changing clip selection in ModelImporter.
*   Mecanim: Fixed OnStateMachineEnter/Exit not being called on layers.
*   Mecanim: Fixed reloading of BlendTree when AnimatorController file modified externally.
*   OS X Standalone: Fixed fullscreen mode
*   Particles: Fixed Particle curve editor preview not refreshing on Undo
*   Particles: Fixed Shuriken particle system bugs (Limit Velocity Over Lifetime was FPS-dependent, and some spawn parameters weren't random enough).
*   Particles: Shuriken sub-emitters sometimes didn't fire
*   Physics: Fixed 'Physics2D.GetRayIntersectionXXX' methods being affected by 'Physics2D.raycastsStartInColliders'.
*   Physics: Fixed incorrect depth sorting for results of 'Physics2D.GetRayIntersectionXXX' methods.
*   Plugins: Default Standalone settings for CPU specific plugins will be correctly set once again, additional this path variation is now possible as well, for ex., "Assets\\MyPackage\\Plugins\\x86\\Plugin.dll".
*   Substance: Fix crash in iOS/il2cpp builds caused by uninitialized SubstanceSystem.
*   Substance: Using \_TexelSize in shaders now works correctly with ProceduralTextures.
*   UI: Allow UI elements to render in overlay mode even if they don't have a shader that requires lighting
*   UI: Characters from Dynamic Font disappear when Scene is saved
*   UI: Fix issue with UI stencil breaking in editor due to materials that were deleted being passed through to the render pipeline.
*   UI: Only call 'PointerDrop' callback if we have begun a pointer drag
*   UI: Stop disabled graphics from blocking raycasts
*   UI: Stop OnValidate being called at inappropriate times for UI elements
*   UI: When overriding sorting ensure to calculate the bounds using the generated mesh of the correct sub Canvas
*   Windows Phone 8: Fixed corrupted display resolution when screen is rotated in Landscape mode.
*   Windows Store Apps: Application will correctly change its resolution when display resolution changes on DX12.
*   Windows Store Apps: Application.isMobilePlatform will now return true
*   Windows Store Apps: fix incorraectly reported PlayerPrefs corruption after upgrading to Unity 5.1
*   Windows: Both Editor and Windows Standalone will correctly report Windows 10 via SystemInfo class.

The following are changes and fixes to 5.2 features and regressions...
----------------------------------------------------------------------

### Fixes

*   Mecanim: Fixed accessing StateMachineBehaviours when using Playables.
*   Mecanim: Fixed AnimationWindow not working well with AnimatorParameter.
*   Mecanim: Fixed broken Animator Unscaled Time.
*   Mecanim: Fixed crash when using empty AnimatorController.
*   Mecanim: Fixed Playable graph topology change resetting root transform.