### Known Issues in 2021.2.0a16

*   2D: Vertex can't be created after modifying Vertexes weight and when Sprite is from the .psb file ([1322204](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/skinning-editor-vertex-cant-be-created-after-modifying-vertexes-weight-and-when-sprite-is-from-the-psb-file))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Animation: AnimationEvent is fired late or isn't fired at all when Animation's 'Motion Time' value is set manually ([1324763](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationevent-is-fired-late-or-isnt-fired-at-all-when-animations-motion-time-value-is-set-manually))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Editor: Contents of a ModalUtility window are invisible when it is launched from a Unity Context Menu ([1313636](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-displaying-showmodalutility-window))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Editor: Editor freezes when FixedTimestep value in the Preferences is set to 0/0 ([1326481](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freezes-when-fixedtimestep-value-in-the-preferences-is-set-to-0-slash-0))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   GI: Reflection probes don't contain indirect scene lighting after the on-demand GI bake from the Lighting window ([1324246](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/reflection-probes-doesnt-contain-indirect-scene-lighting-after-the-on-demand-gi-bake-from-the-lighting-window))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Graphics: Crash in RadeonRaysMeshManager::RemoveGeometry while baking Terrain game object with 4k lightmaps on certain GPU ([1255993](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/global-illumination-editor-crashes-while-baking-terrain-game-object-using-progressive-gpu-lightmapper))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Package Manager: When a package is installed and there is an update available, the 'Update' button is missing (1331954)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a8._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Physics: OnTriggerEnter gets called after reparenting a RigidBody ([1323883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onentertrigger-gets-called-after-reparenting-a-rigidbody))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Scene Manager: SceneVisibility.SceneVisibilityMoveTests taking ~20x longer to complete (1327732)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a13._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Global Illumination: \[Denoising\] RadeonPro denoising creates corruption in lightmap output ([1333938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/denoising-radeonpro-denoising-creates-corruption-in-lightmap-output))
    
*   Templates: Editor Crashes when performing Undo and Redo after duplicating Game Object with LEGO Model Asset component ([1298503](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-redoing-and-undoing-pasting-prefabs-in-scene-in-lego-microgame))
    
*   Terrain: All the textures are cleared when creating Texture array ([1323870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/all-the-textures-are-cleared-when-creating-texture-array))
    
*   Shader System: Performance regression with the new keyword system ([1333713](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-regression-with-the-new-keyword-system))
    
*   Scene Management: Crash on BuildPrefabInstanceCorrespondingObjectMap when overriding nested prefab inside AssetDatabase.StartAssetEditing() block ([1324978](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-buildprefabinstancecorrespondingobjectmap-when-overriding-nested-prefab-inside-assetdatabase-dot-startassetediting-block))
    
*   Package Manager: User can't easily configure location of both UPM and Asset Store package local cache ([1317232](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-cant-easily-configure-location-of-both-upm-and-asset-store-package-local-cache))
    
*   DirectX12: Editor crashes on GfxDeviceD3D12Base::DrawBuffersCommon when switching between Scenes ([1329083](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-gfxdeviced3d12base-drawbufferscommon-when-switching-between-scenes))
    
*   IL2CPP: Build fails when using a combination of messages, SyncVars and SyncList in a project ([1328966](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-build-fails-when-using-a-combination-of-messages-syncvars-and-synclist-in-a-project))
    
*   AI: Crash with ComputeTileMeshJob when generating Navmesh ([1329346](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-with-computetilemeshjob-when-generating-navmesh))
    
*   Profiling: GarbageCollectAssets is triggered frequently when higher frame counts are set ([1332708](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/garbagecollectassets-is-triggered-frequently-when-higher-frame-counts-are-set))
    
*   Window Management: Prefab's Overrides window appears from the left side of the Editor ([1331766](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefabs-overrides-window-appears-from-the-left-side-of-the-editor))
    
*   Metal: Performance in Game View is significantly impacted by Gfx.WaitForPresentOnGfxThread when a second monitor is connected ([1327408](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-in-game-view-is-significantly-impacted-by-gfx-dot-waitforpresentongfxthread-when-a-second-monitor-is-connected))
    
*   Asset Import Pipeline: Prefab script field reference is lost when project is upgraded ([1328724](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-script-field-reference-is-lost-when-project-is-upgraded))
    
*   Mono: Crash starting Unity when using NordVPN ([1308797](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-system-dot-net-dot-sockets-dot-socket-queueioselectorjob-when-using-a-vpn-and-opening-a-project-that-uses-visual-studio))
    
*   Asset Import Pipeline: Editor crashes while exiting play mode ([1328667](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-while-exiting-play-mode))
    
*   Scripting: Increased Script Assembly reload time ([1323490](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/increased-reload-time))
    
*   Mobile: \[Android\] Build fails when there are 680 or more files in the Streaming Assets folder ([1272592](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-build-fails-when-there-are-680-or-more-files-in-the-streaming-assets-folder))
    
*   Build Pipeline: IBP: Windows Mono builds don't build in Mac ([1328709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ibp-windows-mono-builds-dont-build-in-mac-or-linux))
    
*   WebGL: \[iOS\] video is not playing on iOS ([1288692](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-ios-video-is-not-playing-on-ios))
    
*   Terrain: Crash on TreeRenderer::WillRenderTrees when being in Play Mode for several seconds ([1317966](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-treerenderer-willrendertrees-when-being-in-play-mode-for-several-seconds))
    
*   Animation: \[Performance Regression\] AnimationWindowState:get\_allCurves takes approximately 5000ms to load animation in the Animation window ([1320250](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/perfomance-regression-animationwindowstate-get-allcurves-takes-approximately-5000ms-to-load-animation-in-the-animation-window))
    
*   Scene/Game View: Editor performance in the Scene View regressed drastically when multi selecting GameObjects ([1329140](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-performance-in-the-scene-view-regressed-drastically-when-multi-selecting-gameobjects))
    
*   Serialization: Crash in SerializedProperty::IsValid when reordering a SerializedProperty list ([1320319](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-serializedproperty-isvalid-when-reordering-a-serializedproperty-list))
    
*   MacOS: \[Metal\]\[Editor\] Memory grows continuously until Editor crashes when importing 100k materials ([1214197](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-editor-memory-grows-continuously-until-editor-crashes-when-importing-100k-materials))
    
*   MacOS: MacOS editor fails to load platform editor extensions ([1322945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/download-assistant-opening-file-failed-popup-appears-on-creating-slash-upgrading-any-project-when-the-editor-is-installed-via-da))
    
*   UI Builder: Visual Studio opens up instead of UI Builder on double-clicking on uXML file in the Project window ([1298297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-visual-studio-opens-up-instead-of-ui-builder-on-double-clicking-on-uxml-file-in-the-project-window))
    
*   Project Browser: Basic primitive Meshes are not shown in Select Mesh window ([1314696](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/basic-primitive-meshes-are-not-shown-in-select-mesh-window))
    

### New 2021.2.0a16 Entries since 2021.2.0a15

#### Features

*   Asset Import: Updated com.unity.formats.alembic to 2.2.0-pre.3.
    
*   Core: Added Screen.mainWindowPosition, Screen.mainWindowDisplayInfo, Screen.GetDisplayLayout() and Screen.MoveMainWindowTo() APIs. See Scripting API documentation for more information.
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Added support for recording accumulation, for motion blur and path tracer (HDRP).
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Integrated the AOV Recorder into the Recorder package.
    
*   Search: Added a new explicit provider to search performance metrics.
    
*   Shaders: Introduced keyword space separation.  
    Shaders, compute shaders and materials now operate in separate local keyword spaces. All keywords declared in a shader or in a compute shader using any of the multi\_compile\* or shader\_feature\* directives are local. Material and Compute Shader classes now operate with local keywords only.  
    Global keyword space contains global keywords. Global keywords are converted to local keyword space of a shader or compute shader prior to rendering. When a shader or a compute shader declares a keyword that has the same name as a global keyword, turning this global keyword on or off will affect variant selection.
    

#### Improvements

*   Asset Import: Improved performance of the Model Importer material tab display. (1295743)
    
*   Audio: Added voice priority display in audio pane of profiler.
    
*   Audio: Added VU metering information from audio mixer groups in audio pane of profiler to make it easy to compare it against volume and audibility levels.
    
*   Audio: Improved the way audio mixers are displayed inside the audio profiler pane when the "Groups" and "Channels and Groups" view modes are enabled.  
    Previously the column-based sorting from the "Channels" view mode was applied to the other view modes too which resulted in inconsistent ordering of channels and groups below mixers and even mixers changing order dynamically, making the profiler hard to read.  
    Additionally the names of the mixers is now shown in the profiler where it currently only showed the ambiguous "Master" groups of the mixers below the "Audio Listener" group.  
    Finally the triangle shape after the titles of the column headers in the Detailed and Clip views was changed to an arrow that more clearly indicates the sorting order, and the arrow is now placed before the title instead of after it to avoid cutting it off when the columns are manually resized to fit the window.
    
*   Audio: Now displays target mixer groups in audio profiler.
    
*   Editor: Create Empty Parent' now matches selection rect for Rect Transforms.
    
*   Editor: Optimized Gizmos performance in Editor - down from 6ms to 1.5ms for a complicated scene view.
    
*   Editor: Texture import settings UI indicates which platforms have override settings, via a blue override line on the platform tabs.
    
*   Editor: The popup progress bar now displays which assembly contains the code that is stalling the editor, if available.
    
*   Graphics: Shader preloading now can be performed after the first scene is loaded and can be distributed across multiple frames.
    
*   iOS: Generated Xcode project now uses new build system.
    
*   macOS: Generated Xcode project now uses new build system.
    
*   Networking: UnityWebRequest on iOS no longer uses operation queue for uploads, upload data will request by a callback from system.
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Enabled alpha channel capture in projects that use HDRP.
    
*   Package Manager: Improved performance when browsing "My Assets".
    
*   Shaders: Removed fixed shader keyword limits. Global keywords are now limited to UInt32 space, local shader keywords are now limited to UInt16 space.
    
*   Terrain: Improved worst-case performance while painting on high-resolution (2k x 2k or higher) terrain heightmaps. (1283138)
    
*   WebGL: Refactored unityInstance.Quit() in UnityLoader.js and call QuitCleanup from both unityInstance.Quit() and Application.Quit().
    

#### API Changes

*   2D: Added: New API to query SpriteAtlas information IsIncludedInBuild and GetMasterAtlas.
    
*   Editor: Added: API on the QueryEngine to better control filtering.
    
*   Graphics: Added: 2D texture atlases.
    
*   Graphics: Added: AssetPostprocessor.OnPostprocessTexture3D ( Texture3D )  
    AssetPostprocessor.OnPostprocessTexture2DArray ( Texture2DArray ).
    
*   Graphics: Added: Blitter for the SRPs.
    
*   Graphics: Added: New API in DynamicResolutionHandler to handle multicamera rendering for hardware mode. Changing cameras and resetting scaling per camera should be safe.
    
*   Graphics: Added: New methods on CoreEditorDrawers, to allow adding a label on a group before rendering the internal drawers.
    
*   Graphics: Deprecated: Most of BatchRenderGroup API will be fully deprecated in 2022.2 (and replaced by a new API).
    
*   HDRP: Added: "Conservative" mode for shader graph depth offset.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Area Light support for Hair and Fabric master nodes.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Deferred shading debug visualization.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Documentation for volumetric clouds.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Error message when trying to use disk lights with realtime GI. ([1317808](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-warning-which-is-shown-when-a-disc-light-is-used-is-misleading))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0._
    
*   HDRP: Added: Fallback for the ray traced directional shadow in case of a transmission. ([1307870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-object-with-translucent-material-type-loses-translucency-when-ray-traced-shadows-are-enabled-on-light))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Added: Global settings check in Wizard.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Help URL for volumetric clouds override.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Info box for micro shadow editor. (1322830)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Added: Localization on Wizard window.
    
*   HDRP: Added: LTC Fitting tools for all BRDFs that HDRP supports.
    
*   HDRP: Added: New control slider on RTR and RTGI to force the LOD Bias on both effects.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Scale Mode setting for Decals.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support for alpha channel in FXAA. (1323941)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support for Fabric material in Path Tracing.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support for multi volumetric cloud shadows.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support for screen space shadows (directional and point, no area) for shadow matte unlit shader graph.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support for volumetric clouds in planar reflections.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support of interpolators for SV\_POSITION in shader graph.
    
*   iOS: Deprecated: ScreenOrientation.Landscape as it was a synonym for ScreenOrientation.LandscapeLeft, and not "some Landscape orientation", which is confusing. (1320447)
    
*   Package: Added: (Recorder) Added public API for AOVRecorderSettings.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Added custom interpolator thresholds on shadergraph project settings page.
    
*   Shaders: Added: Added UnityEngine.Rendering.GlobalKeyword struct to represent keywords in the global keyword space.  
    Added UnityEngine.Rendering.LocalKeyword struct to represent keywords in the local keyword space.  
    Added UnityEngine.Rendering.LocalKeyword struct to represent the keyword space of a particular shader or compute shader.  
    Added ComputeShader.enabledKeywords and Material.enabledKeywords to query or set all enabled keywords simultaneously.  
    Added ComputeShader.keywordSpace and Shader.keywordSpace to query the local keyword space of the corresponding shader.  
    Added optimized Material.EnableKeyword, Material.DisableKeyword, Material.IsKeywordEnabled, ComputeShader.EnableKeyword, ComputeShader.DisableKeyword and ComputeShader.IsKeywordEnabled overloads that work with the new LocalKeyword struct.  
    Added optimized CommandBuffer.EnableKeyword, CommandBuffer.DisableKeyword, Shader.EnableKeyword, Shader.DisableKeyword and Shader.IsKeywordEnabled overloads that work with the new GlobalKeyword struct.  
    Added Shader.enabledGlobalKeywords property to query the global keyword state.  
    Added Shader.globalKeywords property to query the existing global keywords.
    
*   Shaders: Deprecated: ShaderKeyword.GetGlobalKeywordName, ShaderKeyword.GetName and ShaderKeyword.GetKeywordType.
    
*   Universal: Added: 2D Light Texture Node. A Shader Graph node that enable sampling of the Light Textures generated by the 2D Renderer in a lit scene.
    
*   Universal: Added: Depth and DepthNormals passes to particles shaders.
    
*   Universal: Added: Fixed an error where multisampled texture being bound to a non-multisampled sampler in XR. ([1297013](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-urp-black-screen-when-building-project-to-an-android-device-with-mock-hmd-enabled-and-multisampled-sampler-errors))
    
*   Universal: Added: Support for SSAO in Particle and Unlit shaders.
    
*   Universal: Added: \_SURFACE\_TYPE\_TRANSPARENT keyword to URP shaders.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: Material Offset setting in inspector of the rendered outputs.
    

#### Changes

*   Asset Import: Unity will not attempt to relaunch Maya or 3DsMax upon first timeout. ([1281786](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-attempts-are-made-to-open-maya-and-convert-a-ma-file-to-fbx-when-importing-it))
    
*   Graphics: ClearFlag.Depth does not implicitely clear stencil anymore. ClearFlag.Stencil added.
    
*   Graphics: Move Assets > Create > Shader >Shader Variant Collection to Assets > Create > Shader Variant Collection.
    
*   HDRP: Cached the base types of Volume Manager to improve memory and cpu usage.
    
*   HDRP: Changed Allow dynamic resolution from Rendering to Output on the Camera Inspector.
    
*   HDRP: Changed Density Volume for Local Volumetric Fog.
    
*   HDRP: Changed FOV Axis to Field of View Axis.
    
*   HDRP: Changed Link FOV to Physical Camera to Physical Camera, and show and hide everything on the Projection Section.
    
*   HDRP: Changed normal used in path tracing to create a local light list from the geometric to the smooth shading one.
    
*   HDRP: Changed the behavior of the clear coat and SSR/RTR for the stack lit to mimic the Lit's behavior. (1320154)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Embed the HDRP config package instead of copying locally, the `Packages` folder is versionned by Collaborate. ([1276518](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-config-package-does-not-download-when-using-collaborate-slash-cloud-build))
    
*   HDRP: Film grain does not affect the alpha channel.
    
*   HDRP: HDRP Global Settings are now saved into their own asset (HDRenderPipelineGlobalSettings) and HDRenderPipeline's default asset refers to this new asset.
    
*   HDRP: Improved lighting models for AxF shader area lights.
    
*   HDRP: Improved physically based Depth of Field with better near defocus blur quality.
    
*   HDRP: Increased path tracing max samples from 4K to 16K. ([1327729](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-pathtracer-pathtracer-max-sample-should-be-higher-than-4096))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Materials with Transparent Surface type, the property Sorting Priority is clamped on the UI from -50 to 50 instead of -100 to 100.
    
*   HDRP: Reduced the maximal number of bounces for both RTGI and RTR. (1318876)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: The default LookDev volume profile is now copied and referened in the Asset folder instead of the package folder.
    
*   HDRP: UI for Frame Settings has been updated: default values in the HDRP Settings and Custom Frame Settings are always editable.
    
*   HDRP: Updated Light's shadow layer name in Editor.
    
*   HDRP: Updated Wizard to better handle RenderPipelineAsset in Quality Settings.
    
*   HDRP: Virtual Texturing Resolver now performs RTHandle resize logic in HDRP instead of in core Unity.
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Changed the package display name from "Unity Recorder" to "Recorder" in the package manager.
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Fixed a wrong label for the WebM codec.
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Removed legacy Recorders: MP4, EXR, PNG, WEBM and GIF Animation.
    
*   Profiler: Stability and performance improvements of com.unity.performance.profile-analyzer@1.1.0-pre.1. See more details at https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.performance.profile-analyzer@1.0/changelog/CHANGELOG.html.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added borders to inspector items styling, to better differentiate between separate items.
    
*   Shadergraph: Limited max number of inspectable items in the Inspector View to 20 items.
    
*   Shadergraph: Updated Custom Function Node to use new ShaderInclude asset type instead of TextAsset (.hlsl and .cginc softcheck remains).
    
*   Shaders: Shader.DisableKeyword, Shader.IsKeywordEnabled and CommandBuffer.DisableKeyword API will no longer create a global keyword if it doesn't exist.
    
*   Universal: Advanced Options > Priority has been renamed to Sorting Priority.
    
*   Universal: Bokeh Depth of Field performance improvement: moved some calculations from GPU to CPU.
    
*   Universal: ClearFlag.Depth does not implicitely clear stencil anymore. ClearFlag.Stencil added.
    
*   Universal: Code to upgrade from LWRP to URP was removed. This means if you want to upgrade from LWRP you must first upgrade to previous versions of URP and then upgrade to this version.
    
*   Universal: DepthNormals passes now sample normal maps if used on the material, otherwise output the geometry normal.
    
*   Universal: Moved fog evaluation from vertex shader to pixel shader. This improves rendering of fog for big triangles and fog quality. This can change the look of the fog slightly.
    
*   Universal: Opacity as Density blending feature for Terrain Lit Shader is now disabled when the Terrain has more than four Terrain Layers. This is now similar to the Height-blend feature for the Terrain Lit Shader.
    
*   Universal: SSAO Texture is now R8 instead of ARGB32 if supported by the platform.
    
*   Universal: UNITY\_Z\_0\_FAR\_FROM\_CLIPSPACE now remaps to \[0, far\] range on all platforms consistently. Previously OpenGL platforms did not remap, discarding small amount of range \[-near, 0\].
    
*   VFX Graph: Property Binder : Handle Remove Component removing linked hidden scriptable objectfields.
    
*   VFX Graph: Property Binder : Prevent multiple VFXPropertyBinder within the same game object.
    

#### Fixes

*   2D: Fixed initial rendering animated tiles when a CompleteObjectUndo is registered for a Tilemap while in Play mode.
    
*   2D: Fixed wrong Sprites being shown for Animated Tiles when TilemapRenderer is in Individual mode and user sets new Tiles on the Tilemap. ([1329054](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-animated-tile-rendering-glitch-in-animated-tile-chunk-in-individual-mode))
    
*   Android: Fixed label for Proguard template. ([1316757](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-progruard-file-name-in-the-project-settings-does-not-match-with-the-created-file-in-project-windows))
    
*   Android: Fixed shader compile error when signed bitfieldExtract is generated for ES 3.0 shader target. (1327731)
    
*   Android: Updated Kotlin version to fix potential compatibility problems in Android Studio. ([1325245](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-build-fails-because-of-duplicate-classes-when-using-kotlin-plugins-in-your-project))
    
*   Animation: Fixed human pose offset in Animation C# Job when root node is scaled. ([1266529](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/turning-on-the-rig-builder-in-a-humanoid-chacter-makes-it-sink-into-the-ground))
    
*   Animation: Fixed human pose with missing bones shifting when used in an Animation C# Job. ([1214897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-rigging-lower-body-gets-shifted-on-a-specific-rig-when-rig-builder-is-active))
    
*   Asset Bundles: Fixed issue where Caching.IsVersionCached returns false when loading a previously cached bundle. ([1186310](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/caching-dot-isversioncached-returns-false-when-loading-bundle-from-cache))
    
*   Asset Import: AssetResolveTracker now uses kMemTempJobAlloc when used on WorkerProcesses. (1314407)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a4._
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed a potential race condition that made progress bar with 'AssetDatabase.ParallelEnumeration' appear too often when Editor would gain focus. ([1331260](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/potential-race-condition-inside-assetdatabase-dot-parallelenumeration))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a13._
    
*   Audio: (OSX) Sound effects in Audio Mixer were not always selected when clicked. ([1124032](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-sound-effects-in-audio-mixer-arent-always-selected-when-clicked))
    
*   Audio: Exposed send level as a parameter in multiple groups in the audio mixer now works correctly. Note: previously exposed send levels will have to be manually exposed again. ([1285638](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-mixer-unable-to-expose-other-send-level-parameters-when-one-is-already-exposed))
    
*   Audio: Topological changes such as adding/removing/moving effects in the audio mixer resulted in glitches and, depending on mixer configuration, loud bursts. ([666910](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/effects-leak-when-renaming-an-exposed-parameter))
    
*   Editor: Console window 'Clear on Recompile' option no longer clears player build errors. ([1327074](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-no-error-in-console-when-failed-to-build-because-of-editor-scripts-not-in-editor-folder))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue to display Normalmap Encoding PlayerSetting only in supported platforms. (1330505)
    
*   Editor: Fixed ArgumentOutOfRangeException in TreeView when collapsing rows in quick succession. ([1315468](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-argumentoutofrangeexception-gets-thrown-in-the-console-when-folding-a-large-amount-of-entries))
    
*   Editor: Fixed editor doesn't show the created layouts anymore. (1330174)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a15._
    
*   Editor: Fixed Editor texture streaming breaking after doing a build. ([1327396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-textures-in-the-editor-appear-blurry-when-disabling-and-re-enabling-the-texture-streaming-after-a-build-was-made))
    
*   Editor: Fixed for Canvas Group Interactable flag being applied to the GameObject even when the Canvas Group component is disabled. ([1324097](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/canvas-group-interactable-flag-is-applied-to-the-gameobject-when-the-canvas-group-component-is-disabled))
    
*   Editor: Fixed for removing differences in fonts of Outerbuttons and middle buttons in GUILayout.Toolbar. ([1326270](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/guilayout-dot-toolbar-middle-buttons-use-a-different-font-than-outer-buttons))
    
*   Editor: Fixed Gizmo rendering code crash in some invalid WhellCollider configurations. ([1326188](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-crash-on-platform-memmove$variant$nehalem-when-setting-old-prefabs-scale-to-0))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed the Revert/Apply menu doesn't appear when right-clicking on the OnClick event target or function that has been changed. ([1324350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-revert-slash-apply-menu-doesnt-appear-when-right-clicking-on-the-onclick-event-target-or-function-that-has-been-changed))
    
*   Editor: Fixed tooltips not being placed in the correct position. ([1325824](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/imgui-editor-toolbar-buttons-tooltip-position-are-misaligned))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a11._
    
*   Editor: Improved performance of copy/paste when duplicating large numbers of objects. ([1208321](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pasting-undoing-and-deleting-multiple-game-objects-in-the-scene-hierarchy-is-non-linearly-slow))
    
*   GI: Fixed baking on non-primary GPU on machines using a mix of NVIDIA and AMD GPUs. ([1314991](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gpu-plm-lightmapper-falls-back-to-cpu-plm-after-changing-gpu-baking-device))
    
*   GI: Fixed performance regression when baking light probes with a light cookie in the scene. ([1323393](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-regression-when-baking-light-probes-with-a-light-cookie-in-the-scene))
    
*   GI: Make emission tooltip take Enlighten realtime GI state into account. ([1329323](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/emission-tooltip-is-not-taking-enlighten-realtime-gi-state-into-account))
    
*   Graphics: Added GetActiveTerrains method which will fill a user-provided List with the active terrains, allowing users to control the resulting allocation. (1324062)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed assertion on compression of L1 coefficients for Probe Volume.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed batching for instancing when all objects are lit by the same (<8) lights. ([1313977](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-quest-urp-increasing-the-amount-of-real-time-lights-breaks-gpu-instancing))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed empty RenderTexture.ResolveAA debug marker appearing in Frame Debugger and other frame capture tools on mobile platforms. (1330944)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed L2 for Probe Volumes.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Metal DebugGroups during Xcode GPU Frame Capture getting incorrectly nested when using RenderPass API. (1330942)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed normal bias field of reference volume being wrong until the profile UI was displayed.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed sprite atlas generation for some ASTC block sizes. ([1327146](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-2d-sprite-corrupted-or-invisible-in-atlas-when-using-certain-dimension-rgb-a-compressed-5x5-or-10x10-block-sprites))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed static batching bug related to rendering layer mask. Meshes that are set up with different rendering layer masks (unity\_RenderingLayer uniform variable in shader code), are now correctly split when static batching is enabled instead of being merged, which would otherwise generate incorrect rendering if unity\_RenderingLayer was accessed by the shader code.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Texture3D.CreateExternalTexture to work correctly with Vulkan. (1322987)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed TextureGenerator.GenerateTexture throws null pointer exception when running with enablePostProcessor to true. (1283888)
    
*   HDRP: Assets going through the migration system are now dirtied.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed a bug with Reflection Probe baking would result in an incorrect baking reusing other's Reflection Probe baking.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed a bug with Reflection Probe baking would result in an incorrect baking reusing other's Reflection Probe baking.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue with Decal normal blending producing NaNs.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed broken Lanczos filter artifacts on ps4, caused by a very aggressive epsilon. ([1328904](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-ps4-lanczos-upscale-produces-incorrect-results-on-ps4))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed camera preview with multi selection. (1324126)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Decal's pivot edit mode 2D slider gizmo not supporting multi-edition.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Decal's UV edit mode with negative UV.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed error message when having MSAA and Screen Space Shadows. (1318698)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Exposure Frame Settings control issues on Planar reflection probes. Dynamic reflections now keep their own exposure relative to their parent camera. (1312153)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Force RGBA16 when scene filtering is active. (1228736)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed global Settings ignore the path set via Fix All in HDRP wizard. ([1327978](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-global-settings-ignore-the-path-set-via-fix-all-in-hdrp-wizard))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a9._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed grey screen on playstation platform when histogram exposure is enabled but the curve mapping is not used.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed HDRPAsset loosing its reference to the ray tracing resources when clicking on a different quality level that doesn't have ray tracing. (1320304)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue in path tracing, where objects would cast shadows even if not present in the path traced layers. (1318857)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue in Probe Reference Volume authoring component triggering an asset reload on all operations.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue in wizard when resource folder don't exist.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue were the final image is inverted in the Y axis. Occurred only on final Player (non-dev for any platform) that use Dynamic Resolution Scaling with Contrast Adaptive Sharpening filter.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue were the final image is inverted in the Y axis. Occurred only on final Player (non-dev for any platform) that use Dynamic Resolution Scaling with Contrast Adaptive Sharpening filter.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with Decal projector edge on Metal. ([1286074](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-decals-on-metal-have-a-border-in-samples-scene))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with gbuffer debug view when virtual texturing is enabled.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with history buffers when using multiple AOVs. (1323684)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with the color space of AOVs. (1324759)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed missing Update in Wizard's DXR Documentation.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed multicamera rendering for Dynamic Resolution Scaling using dx12 hardware mode. Using a planar reflection probe (another render camera) should be safe.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Nans happening when the history render target is bigger than the current viewport. (1321139)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed potential NaN on apply distortion pass.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed preview camera updating the skybox material triggering GI baking. ([1314361](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/enlighten-mousing-over-the-inspector-when-realtime-gi-is-enabled-repeatedly-starts-precompute-tasks))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Render Graph Debug UI not refreshing correctly in the Render Pipeline Debugger.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed SRP batcher not compatible with Decal. (1311586)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed SSR Precision for 4K Screen.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed SSS materials in planar reflections. ([1319027](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/reflected-gameobjects-in-planar-reflection-probe-are-black-when-the-gameobjects-material-type-is-set-to-subsurface-scattering))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed SSS on console platforms.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the camera controller in the template with the old input system. ([1326816](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-camera-doesnt-rotate-in-hdrp-template-with-the-simplecameracontroller-dot-cs-script))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Tube and Disc lights mode selection. ([1317776](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-tube-lights-mode-enum-can-be-overridden-to-either-baked-or-mixed-which-are-not-supported))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed volumetric fog being visually chopped or missing when using hardware Dynamic Resolution Scaling.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed volumetric fog being visually chopped or missing when using hardware Dynamic Resolution Scaling.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed volumetric fog noise due to sun light leaking. (1319005)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed warning fixed on ShadowLoop include (HDRISky and Unlit+ShadowMatte).
    
*   HDRP: Fixed wrong color buffer being bound to pre refraction custom passes.
    
*   HDRP: The default LookDev volume profile is now copied and referenced in the Asset folder instead of the package folder.
    
*   IL2CPP: Corrected return information about the local host when Dns.GetHostEntry is called with an empty string. ([1326854](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dns-dot-gethostentry-malfunction-in-il2cpp-builds))
    
*   IL2CPP: Corrected the behavior of MakeTypedReference for derived types. This allows some BinaryFormatter cases to work properly. ([1269771](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetbundles-are-not-released-in-il2cpp-builds))
    
*   IL2CPP: Fixed possible crash when attaching a debugger or setting breakpoints. ([1327376](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-attaching-script-debugging-process-to-device))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   macOS: Fixed code sign of ppc fat dylibs. (1319067)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a8._
    
*   macOS: Fixed occasional crashes on M1 with HDRP. ([1322965](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-platform-memmove$variant$rosetta-when-opening-an-hdrp-project-on-apple-m1))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a2._
    
*   macOS: If running under Rosetta 2, <Rosetta> will appear in the title bar next to the graphics mode. ([1329708](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-there-is-no-way-to-tell-if-you-are-running-under-rosetta))
    
*   macOS: We now prompt for to save changes even when the window is minimized. ([1320569](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-editor-doesnt-show-unsaved-changes-pop-up-if-editor-is-being-closed-when-window-with-unsaved-changes-is-minimized))
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Ensured that the Image Recorder encodes in sRGB when requested, even if the scripted render pipeline provides linear data.
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Fixed a memory leak in the AOV Recorder.
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Fixed an exception that occurred when the user performed the undo action after deleting a Recorder.
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Fixed invalid values in the alpha channel when performing texture sampling for different rendering and output resolutions.
    
*   Package: (Recorder) Fixed the Tagged Camera capture process to follow any camera changes that might occur.
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed "Load all" not working in "My Assets". (1287445)
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed the issue where Package Manager window does not pick up the right version when there are multiple versions of the same asset in the cache. (1330231)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Physics: Fixed a crash when attempting to access the Rigidbody from the result of a OnCollision callback, when the object we've collided with is a ArticulationBody. The Collision.rigidbody member is now null in this case. ([1320314](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/oncollisionenter-with-articulation-body-crashes-when-calling-rigidbody-getvelocityatpoint))
    
*   Physics: Fixed an issue where setting an array of null bone transforms to a SkinnedMeshRenderer via the 'bones' property, would cause a crash if a Cloth component was present on the same GameObject. ([1328023](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-cloth-with-skinnedmeshrenderer-has-null-bone-references))
    
*   Physics: Fixed inertia tensor not updating when a collider is removed. ([937998](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inertia-tensor-is-not-reset-when-a-collider-is-removed))
    
*   Prefabs: A component added to a Prefab in Prefab Mode which is found to conflict with a pre-existing component on an instance is now suppressed so the Inspector displays only the pre-existing component instead of both. ([1148404](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-incompatible-components-can-be-added-to-a-gameobject-when-using-the-prefab-mode))
    
*   Prefabs: Access to Prefab Mode is now available for non-model immutable Prefabs via arrow buttons in the Hierarchy and for models, the Inspector's Open button is enabled. ([1324356](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/immutable-prefabs-cant-be-fully-opened-from-the-hierarchy-nor-the-open-button-in-the-inspector))
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed comparison overrides popup error when reverting added GameObject in that popup. ([1330945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missingreferenceexception-raised-in-the-console-while-reverting-added-gameobject-from-overrides-window))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a11._
    
*   Profiler: A Profiler module must be selected in order to interact with its chart, such as changing the selected frame or toggling its visible counters. ([1327387](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-when-selecting-modules-the-profiler-charts-get-deselected-at-the-clicked-position))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a10._
    
*   Profiler: Fixed Profiler performance regression. (1330657)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a12._
    
*   Scene Manager: Fixed "PlayerLoop internal function has been called recursively" error is thrown when calling NewScene() from the Update function. ([1258244](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playerloop-internal-function-has-been-called-recursively-error-is-thrown-when-loading-a-new-scene-from-the-update-function))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed editor crash when an animation tries to pass an invalid scriptable object as a method parameter. ([1252134](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-calling-an-animation-event-with-an-invalid-scriptable-object-parameter))
    
*   Scripting: Prevented a potential race condition when threaded-loading is enabled and a scene is loaded in additive mode. (1327726)
    
*   Services: Fixed Android app\_build is 0 for reports in Cloud Diagnostics. ([1217055](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-app-build-is-0-for-crash-reports))
    
*   Services: Fixed Cloud Diagnostics sometimes failing to provide line numbers for Windows Native crashes. (1329172)
    
*   Services: Fixed iOS builds may fail in Xcode with error about USYM\_UPLOAD\_AUTH\_TOKEN. (1329176)
    
*   Shadergraph: Added padding to the blackboard window to prevent overlapping of resize region and scrollbars interfering with user interaction.
    
*   Shadergraph: Blackboard now properly handles selection persistence of items between undo and redos.
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed "Disconnect All" option being grayed out on stack blocks. ([1313201](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-disconnect-all-option-is-greyed-out-on-stack-blocks))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a bug in master node preview generation that failed compilation when a block was deleted. ([1319066](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-deleting-stack-blocks-of-universal-rp-targeted-shadergraph-causes-the-main-preview-to-fail-to-compile))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a bug where big input values to the SimpleNoise node caused precision issues, especially noticeable on Mali GPUs. ([1322891](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-mali-missing-glitch-effect-on-mali-gpu-devices))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a bug where changing a Target setting would switch the inspector view to the Node Settings tab if any nodes were selected.
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a bug where property deduplication was failing and spamming errors. ([1317809](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/console-error-when-adding-a-sample-texture-operator-when-a-sampler-state-property-is-present-in-blackboard))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a bug where synchronously compiling an unencountered shader variant for preview was causing long delays in graph updates. (1323744)
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a regression where custom function node file-included functions could not access shadergraph properties. (1322467)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a9._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a ShaderGraph issue where ObjectField focus and Node selections would both capture deletion commands. ([1313943](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-custom-function-node-is-deleted-when-deleting-source-file-from-node-settings))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where a requirement was placed on a fixed-function emission property. ([1319637](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-selecting-urp-shadergraph-material-results-in-error-spam))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where fog node density was incorrectly calculated.
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where generated property reference names could conflict with Shader Graph reserved keywords. ([1328762](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-using-a-gradient-property-in-a-subgraph-and-using-that-subgraph-in-a-shadergraph-causes-compile-errors))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where users can't create multiple Boolean or Enum keywords on the blackboard. ([1329021](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-cant-create-multiple-boolean-or-enum-keywords))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an unhelpful error message when custom function nodes didn't have a valid file. (1323493)
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed default shadergraph precision so it matches what is displayed in the graph settings UI (single). ([1325934](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-custom-function-node-thinks-graph-precision-is-half-when-created))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed how shadergraph's prompt for "unsaved changes" was handled to fix double messages and incorrect window sizes. ([1319623](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-undocked-shader-graph-window-is-docked-when-closing-it-without-saving-changes))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed inspector property header styling.
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed issue where vertex generation was incorrect when only custom blocks were present. (1320695)
    
*   Shaders: Fixed caching preprocessor not recognising 1.#INF HLSL constant. ([1331147](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/caching-preprocessor-does-not-support-1-dot-number-inf))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed from UI Builder package 1.0.0-preview.13 to the editor.
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed issue with focusing elements that are about to switch to display:flex. ([1329611](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graphview-node-groups-systems-properties-sticky-notes-can-not-be-renamed))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a2._
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed the theme selector ordering when importing uss files. (1317035)
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where changing camera's position in the BeginCameraRendering do not apply properly. ([1318629](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-doesnt-move-when-changing-its-position-in-the-begincamerarendering-and-the-endcamerarendering-methods))
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where Depth Prepass was not run when SSAO was set to Depth Mode.
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where filtering in the scene view would not properly highlight the filtered objects. (1324359)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0._
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where Light2D did not upgrade Shadow Strength, Volumetric Intensity, Volumetric Shadow Strength correctly. ([1317755](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-lighting-missing-orange-tint-in-scene-background))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where SmoothnessSource would be upgraded to the wrong value in the material upgrader.
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where transparent objects sampled SSAO.
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where using Camera.targetTexture with Linear Color Space on an Android device that does not support sRGB backbuffer results in a RenderTexture that is too bright. (1307710)
    
*   Universal: Fixed base camera to keep display index in sync with camera stacks for canvas. ([1291872](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/canvas-renders-only-on-the-display-1-when-its-set-to-screen-space-camera-or-world-space-and-has-overlay-type-camera-assigned))
    
*   Universal: Fixed base camera to keep display index in sync with camera stacks. ([1252265](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/universal-rp-overlay-camera-still-renders-to-display))
    
*   Universal: Fixed base camera to keep render texture in sync with camera stacks. ([1288105](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/srp-base-camera-rendering-to-render-texture-takes-overlay-camera-into-account-but-not-its-canvas))
    
*   Universal: Fixed base camera to keep viewport in sync with camera stacks. ([1311268](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/buttons-clickable-area-is-offset-when-canvas-render-camera-is-an-overlay-camera-and-viewport-rect-is-changed-on-base-camera))
    
*   Universal: Fixed camera stack UI correctly work with prefabs. ([1308717](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-prefab-apply-slash-revert-menu-cant-be-opened-by-right-clicking-on-the-stack-label-under-the-camera-component-in-the-inspector))
    
*   Universal: Fixed double sided and clear coat multi editing shader.
    
*   Universal: Fixed errors when the Profiler is used with XR multipass. ([1313141](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-urp-profiler-spams-errors-in-the-console-upon-entering-play-mode))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Universal: Fixed issue causing missing shaders on DirectX 11 feature level 10 GPUs.
    
*   Universal: Fixed issue where copy depth depth pass for gizmos was being skipped in game view. ([1302504](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-handles-with-set-ztest-do-not-respect-depth-sorting-in-the-game-view))
    
*   Universal: Fixed materials being constantly dirty.
    
*   Universal: Fixed multi editing of Bias property on lights. (1289620)
    
*   Universal: Fixed Opacity as Density blending artifacts on Terrain that that caused Terrain to have modified splat weights of zero in some areas and greater than one in others. ([1283124](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-lit-opacity-as-density-option-causes-alphad-areas-on-the-5th-layer-or-greater-to-appear-with-artifacts))
    
*   Universal: Fixed render pass reusage with camera stack on vulkan. ([1226940](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-each-camera-stack-layer-generate-a-render-pass-separately-when-render-pass-are-the-same))
    
*   Universal: SMAA post-filter only clear stencil buffer instead of depth and stencil buffers.
    
*   VFX Graph: Deleted properties still show up in the inspector. ([1320952](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blackboard-deleted-properties-still-show-up-in-the-inspector))
    
*   VFX Graph: Deleting a context node and a block while both are selected throws a null ref exception.
    
*   VFX Graph: Deleting flow edge between Init and Update throw an invalid opeation exception. ([1315593](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/model-is-not-registered-errors-when-disconnecting-a-system-between-its-initialize-and-update-contexts))
    
*   VFX Graph: Exception in VFXFilterWindow if search field is empty. ([1235269](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-editor-throws-nullreferenceexception-in-the-console-when-a-new-node-is-created-from-output-mesh-node-in-vfx-graph))
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed issue with VFX using incorrect buffer type for strip data.
    
*   VFX Graph: Having more than five GPU Event output leads to "unexpected token 'if" at compilation. ([1323434](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-too-many-gpu-event-leads-to-compilation-error))
    
*   VFX Graph: Property Binder : Allow copy/past from a game object to another.
    
*   VFX Graph: Property Binder : Undo after reset. ([1293794](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-undo-functionality-does-not-work-after-resetting-the-vfx-property-binder-on-visual-effect))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   VFX Graph: Regression with some settings not always triggering a recompilation. ([1322844](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/change-in-some-operator-enums-doesnt-recompile-the-graph))
    
*   VFX Graph: Safe Normalization of Cross Products in Orient blocks. ([1272724](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/orient-look-at-position-makes-particles-disappear-when-they-are-aligned-with-the-look-position))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   VFX Graph: Target GameObject attach button does not allow attaching a valid VFX if the last selection was invalid. ([1312178](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-window-target-gameobject-attach-button-does-not-allow-attaching-a-valid-vfx-if-the-last-selection-was-invalid))
    
*   WebGL: Cleaned up the Chrome deprecation warning about the use of SharedArrayBuffer. ([1323832](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-sharedarraybuffer-will-require-cross-origin-isolation-as-of-m91-warning-is-thrown-when-launching-player-on-chrome))
    
*   Windows: Fixed absolute mouse position when mouse acceleration is enabled. ([1221634](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-system-mouse-dot-current-dot-position-value-is-offset-by-1-pixel-compared-to-old-systems-input-dot-mouseposition))
    
*   XR: Camera orthographic projection is not supported when rendering to XR eye texture. Added proper error message to hint users about it and prevent app from executing further and throwing asserts. ([1325200](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-sdk-console-window-is-spammed-with-errors-when-orthographic-camera-clipping-plane-near-is-set-to-0-and-target-eye-to-both))
    
*   XR: Fixed APK hang on Oculus Quest when debugging Vulkan APKs using RenderDoc that use lazily-allocated memory. (1325632)
    
*   XR: World space UI will now render in secondary cameras. (1326167)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._