### Known Issues in 2021.2.0b1

*   2D: 2D Animations crash when entering Play Mode ([1338523](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-animations-crash-when-entering-play-mode))
    
*   AI: Crash with ComputeTileMeshJob when generating Navmesh ([1329346](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-with-computetilemeshjob-when-generating-navmesh))
    
*   Asset Import Pipeline: Editor crashes while exiting play mode ([1328667](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-while-exiting-play-mode))
    
*   Asset Import Pipeline: Infinity loop on importing Assets, when building appx package via MRTK build window ([1339823](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/infinity-loop-on-importing-assets-when-building-appx-package-via-mrtk-build-window))
    
*   Asset Importers: \[MacOS\] Second Unity instance in Activity Monitor is "not respondingâ€ after importing ([1331736](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-second-unity-instance-in-activity-monitor-is-not-responding-after-importing))
    
*   Audio: AudioMixer exposed parameters cause assertions when hidden and prevent the drop-down from functioning ([1336173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audiomixer-exposed-parameters-cause-assertions-when-hidden-and-prevent-the-drop-down-from-functioning))
    
*   Build Pipeline: WebGL fails building on Windows 7 ([1340260](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-fails-building-on-windows-7))
    
*   Global Illumination: Crash while sculpting Terrain and Baking Lightmaps ([1266511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-while-sculpting-terrain))
    
*   Global Illumination: \[GI\] Lightmap reference is lost when static object is moved ([1339841](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-gi-lightmap-reference-is-lost-when-static-object-is-moved))
    
*   HDRP: HDRP Template fills the Console with "Shader error...couldn't open include file" messages after building the project ([1342989](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-template-fills-the-console-with-shader-error-dot-dot-dot-couldnt-open-include-file-messages-after-building-the-project))
    
*   Input: Mouse events are not always fired when VSync is off ([1331894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mouse-events-are-not-always-fired-when-vsync-is-off))
    
*   Input: Touch Input doesn't work in Play Mode when running an Editor on a Touchscreen device ([1341159](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/touch-input-doesnt-work-in-play-mode-when-running-an-editor-on-a-touchscreen-device))
    
*   Linux: Editor crashes at 'GfxFramebufferGLES::SetBackBufferColorDepthSurface' or freezes when creating a new shortcut profile ([1334874](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-at-gfxframebuffergles-setbackbuffercolordepthsurface-or-freezes-when-creating-a-new-shortcut-profile))
    
*   MacOS: MacOS editor fails to load platform editor extensions ([1322945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/download-assistant-opening-file-failed-popup-appears-on-creating-slash-upgrading-any-project-when-the-editor-is-installed-via-da))
    
*   MacOS: \[Metal\]\[Editor\] Memory grows continuously until Editor crashes when importing 100k materials ([1214197](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-editor-memory-grows-continuously-until-editor-crashes-when-importing-100k-materials))
    
*   Metal: Performance in Game View is significantly impacted by Gfx.WaitForPresentOnGfxThread when a second monitor is connected ([1327408](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-in-game-view-is-significantly-impacted-by-gfx-dot-waitforpresentongfxthread-when-a-second-monitor-is-connected))
    
*   Metal: \[iOS 14\]\[Metal\] Application stucks on splash screen and 'XPC\_ERROR\_CONNECTION\_INTERRUPTED' error is thrown ([1282747](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-14-metal-application-stucks-on-splash-screen-and-xpc-error-connection-interrupted-error-is-thrown))
    
*   Mobile: \[Android\] Build fails when there are 680 or more files in the Streaming Assets folder ([1272592](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-build-fails-when-there-are-680-or-more-files-in-the-streaming-assets-folder))
    
*   Mobile Graphics: \[iOS\] Player crashing when connecting external Display via USB-C port ([1321153](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-player-crashing-when-connecting-external-display-via-usb-c-port))
    
*   Mono: \[Mono Upgrade\] Crash when entering the PlayMode ([1341145](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2021-dot-2-0a19-crash-when-entering-the-playmode))
    
*   Mono: \[Mono Upgrade\] \[Asset Store Tools\] Login fails with SecureChannelFailure error ([1338432](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-store-tools-login-fails-with-securechannelfailure-error))
    
*   Package Manager: User can't easily configure location of both UPM and Asset Store package local cache ([1317232](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-cant-easily-configure-location-of-both-upm-and-asset-store-package-local-cache))
    
*   Profiling: Poor profiler performance when navigating the timeline view and reviewing data with many threads ([1339407](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/poor-profiler-performance-when-navigating-the-timeline-view-and-reviewing-data-with-many-threads))
    
*   Scene Management: Crash on BuildPrefabInstanceCorrespondingObjectMap when overriding nested prefab inside AssetDatabase.StartAssetEditing() block ([1324978](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-buildprefabinstancecorrespondingobjectmap-when-overriding-nested-prefab-inside-assetdatabase-dot-startassetediting-block))
    
*   Scene Management: Recent Scenes break after upgrading project ([1338322](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/recent-scenes-break-after-upgrading-project))
    
*   Scene Management: UnassignedReferenceExeptions with unitypackage when upgrading to 2021.1.2f1 ([1341523](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unassignedreferenceexeptions-with-unitypackage-when-upgrading-to-2021-dot-1-2f1))
    
*   Scene/Game View: Editor performance in the Scene View regressed drastically when multi selecting GameObjects ([1329140](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-performance-in-the-scene-view-regressed-drastically-when-multi-selecting-gameobjects))
    
*   Scripting: DomainReloadTests performance tests have regressed due to removal of built-in support for Visual Studio as a code editor ([1336648](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/domainreloadtests-performance-tests-have-regressed-due-to-removal-of-built-in-support-for-visual-studio-as-a-code-editor))
    
*   Scripting: Increased Script Assembly reload time ([1323490](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/increased-reload-time))
    
*   Serialization: Crash in SerializedProperty::IsValid when reordering a SerializedProperty list ([1320319](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-serializedproperty-isvalid-when-reordering-a-serializedproperty-list))
    
*   Shader System: Performance regression with the new keyword system ([1333713](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-regression-with-the-new-keyword-system))
    
*   Templates: Editor Crashes when performing Undo and Redo after duplicating Game Object with LEGO Model Asset component ([1298503](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-redoing-and-undoing-pasting-prefabs-in-scene-in-lego-microgame))
    
*   UI Builder: Visual Studio opens up instead of UI Builder on double-clicking on uXML file in the Project window ([1298297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-visual-studio-opens-up-instead-of-ui-builder-on-double-clicking-on-uxml-file-in-the-project-window))
    
*   Unity Test Runner: \[XR\]\[XR-Automation\] 2021.2 Editor is unable to run UTF tests on Oculus Quest ([1340845](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-xr-automation-2021-dot-2-editor-is-unable-to-run-utf-tests-on-oculus-quest))
    
*   Vulkan: Linux Editor using Vulkan crashes at " GfxDeviceVK::EnsureValidBackbuffer" when showing tooltips for ProBuilder buttons ([1335846](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-using-vulkan-crashes-at-gfxdevicevk-ensurevalidbackbuffer-when-showing-tooltips-for-probuilder-buttons))
    
*   WebGL: \[iOS\] Video is not playing ([1288692](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-ios-video-is-not-playing-on-ios))
    
*   Windows: Editor crashes when exiting and keeping a tutorial project ([1338299](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-exiting-and-keeping-a-new-micrograme-project))
    

### New 2021.2.0b1 Entries since 2021.2.0a21

#### Features

*   WebGL: Added the texture subtarget build setting to WebGL.

#### Improvements

*   iOS: Depth RenderSurfaces now have private storageMode. (1339864)
    
*   Kernel: Memory Settings has been added to the project settings. This gives control of the internal memory setup in Unity. With this it is possible to tweak the memory setup to the individual project.
    
*   Physics: Improved the filtering logic of the Physics Debugger.
    
*   Scripting: Ammend CompilationPipeline.compilationFinished to include that it's currently not possible to build a player from a callback. ([1338334](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-appears-in-the-console-when-triggering-a-build-from-the-compilationfinished-callback))
    
*   WebGL: Updated WebGL compiler to Emscripten 2.0.19. This removes support for the now obsolete asm.js linker target.
    
*   XR: Updated OpenXR Package to 1.2.2.
    

#### API Changes

*   Graphics: Added: "Expand/Collapse All" buttons to Rendering Debugger window menu.
    
*   Graphics: Added: Automatic spaces to enum display names used in Rendering Debugger and add support for InspectorNameAttribute.
    
*   Graphics: Added: DebugUI.Flags.IsHidden to allow conditional display of widgets in Rendering Debugger.
    
*   Graphics: Added: DebugUI.Foldout.isHeader property to allow creating full-width header foldouts in Rendering Debugger.
    
*   Graphics: Added: Mouse & touch input support for Rendering Debugger runtime UI, and fix problems when InputSystem package is used.
    
*   Graphics: Added: New API functions inside DynamicResolutionHandler to get mip bias. This allows dynamic resolution scaling applying a bias on the frame to improve on texture sampling detail.
    
*   Graphics: Added: New draw API as a set of Graphics.RenderX() functions. All the old draw API Graphics.DrawX() functions work as before but many of them can be easily converted to the new API to gain from the added functionality. Some added functionality of the new API:  
    
    *   Support custom per-instance data for RenderMeshInstanced(), per-instance motion vector and rendering layer mask definitions, and easy light probe setup  
        
    *   Support for multi-command indirect draws & future proofing for hardware implementation on supported platforms  
        
    *   Custom world bounds for all mesh rendering (e.g. to support mesh deformation in vertex shaders).
*   Graphics: Added: New SRPLensFlareData Asset.
    
*   Graphics: Added: Reminder if the data of probe volume might be obsolete.
    
*   Graphics: Added: Sampling noise to probe volume sampling position to hide seams between subdivision levels.
    
*   Graphics: Added: Support for Lens Flare Data Driven (from images and Procedural shapes), on HDRP.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Ability to animate many physical camera properties with Timeline.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Ability to control focus distance either from the physical camera properties or the volume.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Lens Flare Samples.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Mixed RayMarching/RayTracing mode for RTReflections and RTGI.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Multicompile for dynamic lightmaps to support enlighten in ray tracing. (1318927)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a8._
    
*   HDRP: Added: New checkbox to enable mip bias in the Dynamic Resolution HDRP quality settings. This allows dynamic resolution scaling applying a bias on the frame to improve on texture sampling detail.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Path tracing support for AxF material.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Path tracing support for stacklit material.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support for lighting full screen debug mode in automated tests.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support for mip bias override on texture samplers through the HDAdditionalCameraData component.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support for surface gradient based normal blending for decals.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Support for tessellation for all master node in shader graph.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Toggle to render the volumetric clouds locally or in the skybox.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Way for fitting a probe volume around either the scene contents or a selection.
    
*   Physics: Added: Property for retrieving ArticulationBody components during a collision event. Articulation bodies can be retrieved by Collision.articulationBody.
    
*   Physics: Added: Property for retrieving either ArticulationBody or Rigidbody components to collision events under Collision.body.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Ability to enable tiling and offset controls for a Texture2D input.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Ability to mark textures / colors as \\\[MainTexture\\\] and \\\[MainColor\\\].
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Categories to the blackboard, enabling more control over the organization of shader properties and keywords in the Shader Graph tool. These categories are also reflected in the Material Inspector for URP + HDRP, for materials created from shader graphs.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: For Texture2D properties, added linearGrey and red as options for default texture mode.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: For Texture2D properties, changed the "bump" option to be called "Normal Map", and will now tag these properties with the \[NormalMap\] tag.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: New dropdown property type for subgraphs, to allow compile time branching that can be controlled from the parent graph, via the subgraph instance node.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: New target for the built-in render pipeline, including Lit and Unlit sub-targets.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Split Texture Transform node to allow using/overriding the provided tiling and offset from a texture input.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Stage control to ShaderGraph Keywords, to allow fragment or vertex-only keywords.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Toggle "Disable Global Mip Bias" in Sample Texture 2D and Sample Texture 2D array node. This checkbox disables the runtimes automatic Mip Bias, which for instance can be activated during dynamic resolution scaling.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: `Branch On Input Connection` node. This node can be used inside a subgraph to branch on the connection state of an exposed property.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: `Calculate Level Of Detail Texture 2D` node, for calculating a Texture2D LOD level.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: `Dropdown` node per dropdown property, that can be used to configure the desired branch control.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: `Gather Texture 2D` node, for retrieving the four samples (red component only) that would be used for bilinear interpolation when sampling a Texture2D.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: `Use Custom Binding` option to properties. When this option is enabled, a property can be connected to a `Branch On Input Connection` node. The user provides a custom label that will be displayed on the exposed property, when it is disconnected in a graph.
    
*   URP: Added: "Allow Material Override" option to Lit and Unlit ShaderGraph targets. When checked, allows Material to control the surface options (transparent/opaque, blend mode, etc).
    
*   URP: Added: Blending and box projection for reflection probes.
    
*   URP: Added: Decal support. This includes new Decal Projector component, Decal renderer feature and Decal shader graph.
    
*   URP: Added: Light cookies support to directional, point and spot light. Directional light cookie is main light only feature.
    
*   URP: Added: New UI for Render Pipeline Converters. Used now for Built-in to Universal conversion.
    
*   URP: Added: New URP Debug Views under Window/Analysis/Rendering Debugger.
    
*   URP: Added: Optional Depth Priming. Allows the forward opaque pass of the base camera to skip shading certain fragments if they don't contribute to the final opaque output.
    
*   URP: Added: Possibility to rename light layer values.
    
*   URP: Added: Sections on Light Inspector.
    
*   URP: Added: Store Actions' option that enables bandwidth optimizations on mobile GPU architectures.
    
*   URP: Added: Support for controlling Volume Framework Update Frequency in UI on Cameras and URP Asset as well as through scripting.
    
*   URP: Added: URP Global Settings Asset to the Graphics Settings - a common place for project-wide URP settings.
    
*   URP: Added: VFX: Basic support of Lit output.
    
*   URP: Changed: Reorder camera inspector to be in the same order as HDRP.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: New tool : Signed Distance Field baker.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: New tool to help set VFX Bounds.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: Restore "Exact Fixed Time Step" option on VisualEffectAsset.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: Support 2D Renderer in URP for Unlit.
    

#### Changes

*   2D: Updated the SceneView overlays used by the Tile Palette to use UIToolkit/new Overlays framework instead of IMGUI. (1342226)
    
*   Graphics: Platform ShaderLibrary API headers now have a new macro layer for 2d texture sampling macros. This layer starts with PLATFORM\_SAMPLE2D definition, and it gives the possibility of injecting sampling behavior on a render pipeline level. For example: being able to a global mip bias for temporal upscalers.
    
*   HDRP: Augmented debug visualization for probe volumes.
    
*   HDRP: Global Camera shader constants are now pushed when doing a custom render callback.
    
*   HDRP: Splited HDProjectSettings with new HDUserSettings in UserProject. Now Wizard working variable should not bother versioning tool anymore. (1330640)
    
*   HDRP: Use the new API for updating Reflection Probe state (fixes garbage allocation). (1290521)
    
*   Package: Com.unity.purchasing updated to 3.2.2. Please refer to the package changelog online here: https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.purchasing@3.2/changelog/CHANGELOG.html.
    
*   Package: Updated package to com.unity.live-capture 1.0.1-pre.465.
    
*   Package: Visual Scripting:  
    
    *   NotEquals node in non-scalar mode is now consistent with Equals.
*   Shadergraph: Changed BranchOnInputNode to choose NotConnected branch when generating Preview.
    
*   Shadergraph: Properties and Keywords are no longer separated by type on the blackboard. Categories allow for any combination of properties and keywords to be grouped together as the user defines.
    
*   Shadergraph: Vector2/Vector3/Vector4 property types will now be properly represented by a matching Vector2/Vector3/Vector4 UI control in the URP + HDRP Material Inspector as opposed to the fallback Vector4 field that was used for any multi-dimensional vector type in the past.
    
*   URP: Changed Pixel Snapping and Upscale Render Texture in the PixelPerfectCamera to a dropdown.
    
*   URP: Improved PixelPerfectCamera UI/UX.
    
*   URP: Made 2D shadow casting more efficient.
    
*   URP: Material upgrader now also upgrades AnimationClips in the project that have curves bound to renamed material properties.
    
*   URP: Moved all 2D APIs out of experimental namespace.
    

#### Fixes

*   2D: Fixed missing reference on 2D default assets when upgrading project from 20.3. ([1341434](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-sprite-upgrading-project-from-20-dot-3-to-21-dot-1-causes-default-sprite-in-scene-to-lose-reference))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   2D: Fixed Sprite Editor Window toolbar options visual defect when the Window is too small. ([1337633](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-options-from-sprite-editor-window-get-overlapped-on-resizing-its-window))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a10._
    
*   Android: Fixed crash when using R16 UNorm and similar formats with Vulkan on devices that don't support it. ([1314282](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-adreno-application-crashes-when-loading-a-r16-bit-texture-on-development-builds))
    
*   Android: Fixed error message in console when opening Player Settings with Android as active platform. ([1328920](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-player-settings-are-throwing-exceptions-getbaseunitydeveloperfolder-can-only-be-called-from-the-main-thread))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a14._
    
*   Android: Resolved an Android build failure when the Target SDK was set to below 24. (1340438)
    
*   Animation: Fixed a bug where the .controller file would grow in size even after undoing states. ([1194086](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-animator-controller-data-leak))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where the stabilize feet would not get saved upon entering playmode. ([1245722](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-dot-stabilizefeet-is-set-to-false-after-the-second-time-of-calling-the-update-method-when-using-playables-api))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where the Vector property of the material component would not have a blue tint to highlight it was being animated when in preview mode. ([1333416](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vector4-field-of-an-animated-material-is-not-tinted-blue-or-red-when-in-animation-preview-or-recording))
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed crash when project loaded default physics material at startup, then it was unloaded and then a physics material would be imported. ([1338910](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-importing-a-physicsmaterial-crashes-the-editor-inside-physicmaterial-reset))
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed issue with IExternalCodeEditor.SyncIfNeeded missing assets in addedFiles lists at startup. (1331815)
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed issue with incorrect progress bar text during startup. (1339167)
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed problem with old script type dependencies. In some cases they could result in (incorrect) artifact match. ([1340159](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nested-prefabs-script-values-get-reset-to-default-when-upgrading-to-2019-dot-4-23f1-or-above))
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed various issues relating to assets not being correctly unloaded during AssetDatabase.Refresh(). ([1186177](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animations-are-not-playing-when-loading-scene-after-upgrading-from-unity-2019-dot-3-0b3-or-above-to-a-newer-version), [1213291](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/override-controllers-are-missing-their-state-to-clip-mapping-when-imported-via-a-custom-package), [1255803](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/references-to-animation-clips-in-blend-trees-disappear-when-a-new-animation-clip-is-added-and-the-model-is-reimported), [1299716](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scriptableobject-has-null-reference-to-prefabs-component-when-there-is-a-reference-inside-the-scriptableobject))
    
*   Core: Secured player connection so it try to send all remaining data before terminating connection. (1340632)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a20._
    
*   Documentation: Fixed html bug in TestRunnerApi API code snippet (DS-1973).  
    Fix typo bug in PreBuildSetup code example (DS-1974).  
    Fix incorrect syntax in command line reference (DS-1971).
    
*   Editor: Added playerGraphicsAPI TestSettings parameter.
    
*   Editor: Editor no longer crashes when calling DragAndDrop.PrepareStartDrag during a drag and drop operation. ([1335308](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-dragging-prefab-into-scene))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a5._
    
*   Editor: Fixed a bug where test filter would match project or player path (DSTP-412).
    
*   Editor: Fixed a regression in error message when MonoBehaviour class name don't match the file name. (1328619)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where inspector preview of Gradient and AnimationCurve values of a serialized object were not getting refreshed when its values are changed from script. ([1311461](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gradient-and-animationcurve-previews-dont-get-updated-when-modifying-values-from-script))
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where the tooltips for the labels are placed at a fix position. they now appear at the mouse cursor. ([1332686](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-browser-selection-tooltip-is-always-in-fixed-position-when-hovering-over-footer-text))
    
*   Editor: Initializing the static Progress class from a thread no longer throws exceptions. ([1337421](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asyncprogress-initializing-the-c-number-progress-class-from-a-non-main-thread-crashes-the-thread))
    
*   Editor: Revert prevent automatic apply of changes when duplicate or delete is used. ([1340732](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/duplicate-array-element-and-delete-array-element-options-are-not-working-for-lists-slash-arrays))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: The background task window is no longer repositioned and resized when opened from the status bar. ([1337646](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/background-tasks-window-size-change-gets-reverted-after-opening-it-while-tasks-are-running))
    
*   GI: Fixed changes in lighting settings or lightmap parameters not affecting the appearance of baked reflection probes when baking via "Generate Lighting" in the lighting tab. ([1324641](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-to-denoising-or-gi-samples-counts-are-not-rendered-in-reflection-probes-when-baking-gi-from-the-lighting-window))
    
*   Graphics: Encoding RFloat and RHalf to PNG, JPG or TGA now encodes to a grayscale image. ([1325643](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/encodetopng-stores-grayscale-image-as-rgb-with-the-grayscale-info-in-the-blue-channel-when-rfloat-format-is-used))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed ACES filter artefact due to half float error on some mobile platforms.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash when calling AsyncGPUReadback.RequestIntoNativeArray with a temp allocated array. ([1336583](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-forcing-render-texture-to-update-before-it-being-initialized))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed disappearing mesh when "Keep Quads" is enabled in import settings. ([1327826](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mesh-disappears-when-keep-quads-is-enabled-in-the-fbx-import-settings))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed explicit half precision not working even when Unified Shader Precision Model is enabled.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed issue displaying a warning of different probe reference volume profiles even when they are equivalent.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed missing increment/decrement controls from DebugUIIntField & DebugUIUIntField widget prefabs.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed tessellation factors access in domain shaders on Metal/Vulkan. ([1337590](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hlslcc-generates-incorrect-metal-shaders-when-tessellation-factors-are-read-in-then-domain-post-tessellation-vertex-stage))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue where auto baking of ambient and reflection probe done for builtin renderer would cause wrong baking in HDRP.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue where runtime debug window UI would leak game objects.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue where sometime a docked lookdev could be rendered at zero size and break.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed artifact appearing when diffuse and specular normal differ too much for eye shader with area lights.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed blocky looking bloom when dynamic resolution scaling was used.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Clouds on Metal or platforms that don't support RW in same shader of R11G11B10 textures.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed contact shadows tile coordinates calculations.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed fog precision in some camera positions. ([1329603](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-theres-a-line-in-the-camera-preview-window-when-fog-is-enabled-and-the-camera-is-at-or-higher-than-fog-base-height))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed HDAdditionalLightData's CopyTo and HDAdditionalCameraData's CopyTo missing copy.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with constant buffer being stomped on when async tasks run concurrently to shadows.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with history buffer allocation for AOVs when the request does not come in first frame.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with RAS build fail when LOD was missing a renderer.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with velocity rejection when using physically-based DoF.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed LightCluster debug view for ray tracing.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed material Emission properties not begin animated when recording an animation. ([1328108](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-emission-input-variables-do-not-have-any-effect-when-animated))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed migration step overriden by data copy when creating a HDRenderPipelineGlobalSettings from a HDRPAsset.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed multi cameras using cloud layers shadows.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed NaNs when denoising pixels where the dot product between normal and view direction is near zero. (1329624)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed normals provided in object space or world space, when using double sided materials.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed null reference exception in Raytracing SSS volume component.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed pyramid color being incorrect when hardware dynamic resolution is enabled.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed ray traced reflections that were too dark for unlit materials. Reflections are now more consistent with the material emissiveness.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed some reference to old frame settings names in HDRP Wizard.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed SSR Accumulation with Offset with Viewport Rect Offset on Camera.
    
*   Networking: UnityWebRequest: fix error in console when certificate handler is used. ([1337750](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/forcedscopedthreadattach-error-is-thrown-when-sending-a-unitywebrequest-with-a-custom-certificatehandler))
    
*   Package: Visual Scripting :  
    
    *   Fixed long values not preserved in literal nodes.  
        
    *   Fixed root icons in breadcrumbs in the graph editor window.  
        
    *   Fixed graph nodes icons  
        
    *   Fixed project settings will not show when looking for graphs  
        
    *   Fixed exception when user double clicks on a graph  
        
    *   Raised warnings at edit time when a MouseEvent node is used when targeting handheld devices instead of build time.
*   Physics: Corrected contact event behavior for the ArticulationBody component so that it matches Rigidbody component behavior. ([1339908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics-articulation-body-collision-doesnt-call-oncollisionenter-when-listening-from-parent-and-colliding-with-child))
    
*   Physics: Fixed a crash inside Cloth caused by a memory corruption in the bindings layer. ([1337649](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cloth-cloth-component-assigned-to-subdivided-plane-mesh-crashes-editor))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Physics: Fixed incorrect light/dark icons for new CustomCollider2D. (1339030)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a18._
    
*   Profiler: "Add" and "Save Changes" buttons in the Module Editor now maintain their vertical height. ([1341026](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-add-and-save-changes-buttons-in-profiler-module-editor-window-get-cropped-while-resizing-the-window))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a19._
    
*   Profiler: Burger icons in Module Editor appear correctly. ([1341028](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-burger-button-icons-besides-the-tabs-in-profile-module-editor-window-are-stretched-vertically))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a20._
    
*   Profiler: Errors are no longer thrown when opening the Module Editor. ([1341039](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-errors-are-thrown-on-opening-the-profile-module-editor-window))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a20._
    
*   Profiler: Fixed standalone profiler shows editor update check dialogue on start. (1334264)
    
*   Profiler: Fixed Standalone Profiler stops profiling when switching to profile Editor. ([1327339](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standalone-profiler-stops-profiling-when-switching-to-profile-editor))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a12._
    
*   Scene/Game View: Expanding Particle Overlay window appears black when its docked. ([1335416](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-view-expanding-particle-overlay-window-appears-black-when-its-docked))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Scene/Game View: Fixed Camera Overlay lost when entering play mode. (1340455)
    
*   Scene/Game View: Fixed some Scene View Overlays incorrectly registering as applicable to any Editor Window. (1337371)
    
*   Scripting: Added details to sharing violation errors happening when the Script Compilation pipeline copies assembly to their target directories. (1308323)
    
*   Scripting: When in SafeMode, IDE integration packages should now work even if a CodeGen assembly fails to build. (1337678)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0._
    
*   Serialization: Added pruning when an object with \[SerializeReference\] contains missing types. (1338952)
    
*   Serialization: Fixed clone/load/save performance regression. (1338713)
    
*   Serialization: Fixed UnityYAML parsing issue with a TextAsset containing JSON payload. ([1334277](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/yaml-text-asset-throws-parsing-error-when-selecting-it))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a ShaderGraph issue where a warning about an uninitialized value was being displayed on newly created graphs. (1331377)
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a ShaderGraph issue where the right click menu doesn't work when a stack block node is selected. (1320212)
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where a missing subgraph with a "Use Custom Binding" property would cause the parent graph to fail to load. ([1334621](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-shadergraph-cannot-be-opened-if-containing-subgraph-with-custom-binding-that-has-been-deleted))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a17._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where an integer property would be exposed in the material inspector as a float. ([1330302](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-switching-floating-point-float-slash-vector1-with-fractional-value-to-integer-mode-keeps-fractional-value))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where the ShaderGraph transform node would generate incorrect results when transforming a direction from view space to object space. ([1333781](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-behavior-of-view-to-object-space-in-direction-mode-is-wrong-in-urp))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where upgrading from an older version of ShaderGraph would cause Enum keywords to be not exposed. (1332510)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue with how the transform node handled direction transforms from absolute world space in camera relative SRPs. ([1323726](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-transform-algorithm-from-absolute-world-to-object-mode-in-direction-mode-is-wrong))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed divide by zero warnings when using the Sample Gradient Node.
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed ParallaxOcclusionMapping node to clamp very large step counts that could crash GPUs (max set to 256). ([1329025](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-typing-infinity-into-the-steps-input-for-the-parallax-occlusion-mapping-node-crashes-unity))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed reordering when renaming enum keywords. ([1328761](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-reordering-and-then-renaming-enum-entries-breaks-existing-enum-nodes))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed the default dimension (1) for vector material slots so that it is consistent with other nodes. ([1328756](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-default-inputs-for-keyword-nodes-is-vec4s-even-though-they-become-floats-when-the-node-is-plugged-in))
    
*   Shaders: Shaders are now reimported correctly when include directives are affected by shader keywords. ([1333654](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/included-shader-dependencies-are-not-recompiled-when-performing-hot-reload-and-the-include-statement-is-excluded-using-keywords))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed a few problems with the showMixedValue property for BaseCompositeField:  
    
    *   Subfield's callback registration needs to be applied to the bind event, not the attach/detach panel event (see constructor code) --> this fixes a problem with field recycling that did not respond after being recycled  
        
    *   Remove boxing and closure issues on the current implementation of the callback in question  
        
    *   We should not use ve.userData to store the SerializedProperty (userData should be reserved for the user, not the field), use SetProperty() instead  
        
    *   showMixedValue does not need to be set on BaseField.SetValueWithoutNotify; it is set later by binding styles code.
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed read only fields mouse dragger. ([1337002](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/read-only-fields-can-be-modified-with-the-mouse-dragger))
    
*   URP: Fixed an issue where SMAA did not work for OpenGL. ([1318214](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-there-is-no-effect-when-using-smaa-in-urp-with-opengles-api))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   URP: Fixed an issue with Shader Graph Lit shaders where the normalized view direction produced incorrect lighting. (1332804)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0._
    
*   URP: Fixed return values from GetStereoProjectionMatrix() and SetStereoViewMatrix(). ([1312813](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-urp-begincamerarender-method-is-lagging-behind-when-using-urp))
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed null reference exception when exposing Camera type in VFX graph. ([1315582](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/exposing-a-camera-type-in-blackboard-throws-null-ref-exception-console-errors))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a4._
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed VFX with output mesh being always reimported. ([1309753](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/output-mesh-nodes-force-vfxs-to-recompile-when-not-neded))
    
*   VFX Graph: Modified state in the VFX tab has now a correct state.
    
*   VFX Graph: Motion Vector map sampling for flipbooks were not using correct mips.
    
*   VFX Graph: Removed unexpected expression in spawn context evaluation. (1318412)
    
*   WebGL: Fixed the issue of the local server not starting when hitting Build and Run. The issue occurs after updating to Mono 6.13, where the behavior of Console.WriteLine has changed. When encountering a broken stdout pipe, it used to discard output silently, but it now errors out and the server doesn't start. ([1339143](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/local-server-for-webgl-build-and-run-broken))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a18._
    
*   WebGL: Fixed video playback to be muted when Audio Output Mode is set to Audio Source and the selected Audio Source is Muted. Also fixed another issue where video clips that browser blocked from autoplaying would not start playing after user interacts with the web page. ([1241582](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-video-audio-is-being-played-when-videoplayers-audio-output-mode-is-set-to-none))