### Known Issues in 2021.2.0b14

*   Android: \* Devices might wake up from sleep when in split screen mode.  
    
    *   Chrome OS devices that support tablet mode might not pause apps when they are no longer visible.  
        
    *   Some Android devices may experience delayed resolution updates after resizing a window.  
        
    *   Minimum window size might not be respected properly on all Android devices.
*   Asset Bundles: Building process of the AssetBundles is slow when the file count is huge ([1358059](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/building-process-of-the-assetbundles-is-slow-when-the-file-count-is-huge))
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed issue with missing domain reload when entering play mode and LockReloadAssemblies is set. ([1367222](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/domain-reload-missing-when-entering-play-mode))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0b15._
    
*   CodeEditors: Crash on stopping debugging ([1355156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-stopping-debugging))
    
*   Customer QA Onboarding: Instantiated FBX through code throws error after leaving Play Mode ([1363573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/instantiated-fbx-through-code-throws-error-after-leaving-play-mode))
    
*   Editor: Fixed plugin path detection to be case insensitive. (1367554)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0b13._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0b15._
    
*   Global Illumination: Crash while sculpting Terrain and Baking Lightmaps ([1266511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-while-sculpting-terrain))
    
*   Global Illumination: \[GPU PLM\] Fallback to CPU PLM in CL\_INVALID\_MEM\_OBJECT after switching light color only and rebaking GI ([1356714](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gpu-plm-switch-light-color-only-and-rebake-causes-fallback))
    
*   HD RP: Black albedo when using Enlighten Realtime GI in HDRP Player ([1367133](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-lights-when-using-enlighten-realtime-gi-in-hdrp))
    
*   HD RP: HDRP Template fills the Console with "Shader error...couldn't open include file" messages after building the project ([1342989](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-template-fills-the-console-with-shader-error-dot-dot-dot-couldnt-open-include-file-messages-after-building-the-project))
    
*   IL2CPP: IL2CPP Player crash ([1361232](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-player-crash))
    
*   Input: Input.GetKey does not trigger when the mouse cursor is outside the Game window ([1358134](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-dot-getkey-does-not-trigger-when-the-mouse-cursor-is-outside-the-game-window))
    
*   Input: Touch Input doesn't work in Play Mode when running an Editor on a Touchscreen device ([1341159](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/touch-input-doesnt-work-in-play-mode-when-running-an-editor-on-a-touchscreen-device))
    
*   Linux: Unity Editor crashes when editing "Base Map" color of a material ([1358618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-crashes-when-editing-base-map-color-of-a-material))
    
*   Linux: \[XR\]\[Linux\] Editor Menu disappears when opening new AR or VR Template Project or when pressing "Show Tutorials" ([1362449](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-linux-editor-menu-disappears-when-opening-new-ar-or-vr-template-project-or-when-pressing-show-tutorials))
    
*   MacOS: Port count never stops increasing in Standalone build on Mac Standalone ([1365570](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/port-count-never-stops-increasing-in-standalone-build-on-mac-standalone))
    
*   Mono: .NETStandard 2.1 in the editor is missing System.Memory, System.Buffers at runtime ([1367105](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dot-netstandard-2-dot-1-in-the-editor-is-missing-system-dot-memory-system-dot-buffers-at-runtime))
    
*   Packman: User can't easily configure location of both UPM and Asset Store package local cache ([1317232](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-cant-easily-configure-location-of-both-upm-and-asset-store-package-local-cache))
    
*   Physics: Editor crashes when accessing RaycastHit.lightmapCoord and the hit Mesh does not have texture channel 1 ([1361884](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-accessing-raycasthit-dot-lightmapcoord-and-the-hit-mesh-does-not-have-texture-channel-1))
    
*   Profiling: GUIStyle errors are thrown when entering Play mode with docked Profiler and the "Maximize On Play" option Enabled ([1364443](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/guistyle-errors-are-thrown-when-entering-play-mode-with-docked-profiler-and-the-maximize-on-play-option-enabled))
    
*   Profiling: Profiler.GetTotalAllocatedMemoryLong increases when Scene is loaded and unloaded ([1364643](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-dot-gettotalallocatedmemorylong-increases-when-scene-is-loaded-and-unloaded))
    
*   Quality of Life: Crash on GUIView::DoPaint when selecting color with a color picker ([1355078](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-guiview-dopaint-when-selecting-color-with-a-color-picker))
    
*   Quality of Life: Scrolling is jumping when scrolling in the Input Manager ([1362327](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scrolling-is-jumping-when-scrolling-in-the-input-manager))
    
*   Scripting: Error CS8035 is thrown on opening a project when using rulesets ([1349517](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-cs8035))
    
*   Scripting: Increased Script Assembly reload time ([1323490](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/increased-reload-time))
    
*   UI Builder: Changes in UI Builder are lost when editing a 2D sprite ([1357086](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-in-ui-builder-are-lost-when-editing-a-2d-sprite))
    
*   Video: Crash on WindowsVideoMedia::StepAllStreams when reimporting a .m4v file ([1340340](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-windowsvideomedia-stepallstreams-when-reimporting-a-m4v-file))
    
*   Vulkan: \[Editor\] The Scene's GameObjects textures are seemingly random and change colours depending on the Scene's Camera pos. ([1337772](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-editor-the-scenes-gameobjects-textures-are-seemingly-random-and-change-colours-depending-on-the-scenes-camera-pos))
    
*   WebGL: WebGL fails building on Windows 7 ([1340260](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-fails-building-on-windows-7))
    
*   Windows: GameObject Transform position changes on the Y axis when running a build of the project ([1362362](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-transform-position-changes-on-the-y-axis-when-running-a-build-of-the-project))
    
*   Windows: Old input system misses some mouse movement if the new input system is also enabled ([1368808](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/old-input-system-misses-some-mouse-movement-if-the-new-input-system-is-also-enabled))
    
*   XR: \[Linux\] Scene View doesn't render when opening new AR or VR Template project or pressing "Show Tutorials" ([1362435](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-linux-scene-view-doesnt-render-when-opening-new-ar-or-vr-template-project-or-pressing-show-tutorials))
    

### New 2021.2.0b14 Entries since 2021.2.0b13

#### Features

*   Mobile: Adaptive view distance scaler - A new scaler to change the Camera.main view distance automatically.
    
*   Mobile: Boost mode - Boost CPU and GPU for short periods of time.
    
*   Mobile: Cluster info - Request cluster info to have details which and how many cores are available on the device.
    
*   Mobile: Feature API - Check which Adaptive Performance feature is available on the current platform.
    
*   Mobile: Profiler Integration - Profile Adaptive Performance easily from the Unity Profiler.
    
*   Mobile: Scaler profiles - Easily define and change Adaptive Performance Scalers with predefined profiles.
    
*   Mobile: Startup Boost mode - Enables boost mode during engine startup.
    

#### Improvements

*   2D: Cache internal reflection to speed up Sprite editing data access.
    
*   GI: Ensured analytics about a cancelled bake is sent when closing the editor while generating lighting. ([1354238](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fatal-error-when-closing-the-editor-while-generating-lighting))
    
*   N/A (internal): Default texture compression for EmbeddedLinux is configurable from the player settings.
    
*   Package: Upgraded FBX Exporter and FBX SDK to 4.1.1.
    
*   Undo System: Explorable undo history UI.
    

#### API Changes

*   Graphics: Added: Added an option to change the visibilty of the Volumes Gizmos (Solid, Wireframe, Everything), available at Preferences > Core Render Pipeline.
    
*   Graphics: Added: Added helper for Volumes (Enable All Overrides, Disable All Overrides, Remove All Overrides).
    
*   Graphics: Added: Added new API to customize the rtHandleProperties of a particular RTHandle. This is a temporary work around to assist with viewport setup of Custom post process when dealing with DLSS or TAAU.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added a built-in custom pass to draw object IDs.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added a parameter to control the vertical shape offset of the volumetric clouds. (1358528)
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added a property to control the fallback of the last bounce of a RTGI, RTR, RR ray to keep a previously existing side effect on user demand.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added an option to render screen space global illumination in half resolution to achieve real-time compatible performance in high resolutions. ([1353727](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ssgi-denoise-and-ssgitrace-has-poor-performance))
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added the support of volumetric clouds for baked and realtime reflection probes.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Added many node synonyms for the Create Node search so that it's easier to find nodes.
    
*   URP: Added: Added a help button on material editor to show the shader documentation page.
    
*   URP: Added: Fixed incorrect shadow fade in deferred rendering mode.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: Added Is Inside subgraph into VFX Graph additions package.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: Motion vectors enabled for particle strips.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: The VFX editor automatically attach to the current selection if the selected gameobject uses the currently edited VFX asset.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: Two new buttons are available in the editor's tool bar. One will display a popup panel to handle attachement and one to lock/unlock the current attachement.
    

#### Changes

*   Graphics: DynamicResolutionHandler.GetScaledSize function now clamps, and never allows to return a size greater than its input.
    
*   Graphics: Improved the warning messages for Volumes and their Colliders.
    
*   Graphics: Removed DYNAMIC\_RESOLUTION snippet on lens flare common shader. Its not necessary any more on HDRP, which simplifies the shader.
    
*   HDRP: Added debug setting to Rendering Debugger Window to list the active XR views.
    
*   HDRP: Added Material validator in Rendering Debugger.
    
*   HDRP: Added XR single-pass test mode to Rendering Debugger Window.
    
*   HDRP: Changed Debug windows name and location. Now located at: Windows -> General -> Rendering Debugger.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed a null ref exception when running playmode tests with the Rendering Debugger window opened.
    
*   HDRP: Made debug panel mip bias functions internal, not public.
    
*   HDRP: Make some volumetric clouds properties additional to reduce the number default parameters. (1357926)
    
*   HDRP: Move Rendering Debugger "Windows from Windows->General-> Rendering Debugger windows" to "Windows from Windows->Analysis-> Rendering Debugger windows".
    
*   HDRP: Removed Bilinear and Lanczos upscale filter.
    
*   HDRP: Renamed the Cloud Offset to Cloud Map Offset in the volumetric clouds volume component. (1358528)
    
*   HDRP: Visual Environment ambient mode is now Dynamic by default.
    
*   URP: Changed the default name when a new urp asset is created.
    
*   URP: Refactored some of the array resizing code around decal projector rendering to use new APIs in render core.
    
*   URP: UniversalRendererData and ForwardRendererData GUIDs have been reversed so that users coming from 2019LTS, 2020LTS and 2021.1 have a smooth upgrade path, you may encounter issues coming from 2021.2 Alpha/Beta versions and are recommended to start with a fresh library if initial upgrade fails.
    
*   URP: URP Asset Inspector - Advanced settings have been reordered under `Show Additional Properties` on each section.
    
*   URP: URP Asset Inspector - `General` section has been renamed to `Rendering`.
    
*   VFX Graph: Transform integrated to VFXTypes : Circle, ArcCircle, Sphere, ArcSphere, Torus, ArcTorus, Cone, ArcCone.
    

#### Fixes

*   2D: Fixed Sprite Editor Window to be disabled when readonly assets are selected. ([1364044](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-sprite-editor-instantiated-default-assets-can-be-edited-in-sprite-editor))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Android: Make Android on-screen keyboard dismiss behavior match iOS. (1274669)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Animation: Fixed use of PropertyStreamHandle with Addressable AnimatorController. ([1341031](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-rebind-multipositionconstraint-source-objects-when-animator-controller-is-changed-at-runtime))
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed missing automatic scale down or import workers in order to not use excess system resources. (1343401)
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Updated reload tests to cover async domain reload.
    
*   Audio: Increased stack size of audio streaming and async threads to avoid overflows when using managed read callbacks. ([1352803](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/stack-overflow-exceptions-is-thrown-when-using-system-dot-io-dot-monoio-dot-seek-and-assetbundle-dot-loadfromstreamasync))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed a bug where data builds would unnecessarily rerun in incremental player builds if the project contained editor resources.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed a bug where UnityLinker would unnecessarily rerun without changes in incremental player builds.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed a potential file name issue on windows in incremental player builds.
    
*   Editor: Fixed Adaptive Performance render textures scaling sometimes resulting in crash. ([1355775](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-changing-adaptive-resolution-level-asks-for-unsupported-texture-format-which-causes-editor-crash))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a20._
    
*   Editor: Fixed the issue with Multiple "Failed to insert item" warnings being logged when the amount of inserted items exceeds 1000. ([1343433](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multiple-failed-to-insert-item-warnings-logged-when-amount-of-inserted-items-exceeds-1000))
    
*   GI: Fixed a crash occurring while sculpting terrain and baking. ([1266511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-while-sculpting-terrain))
    
*   GI: Fixed crash when closing editor while generating lighting. ([1354238](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fatal-error-when-closing-the-editor-while-generating-lighting))
    
*   GI: Fixed issue with light baker locking up the editor when invoked from the C# API in projects with async shader compilation enabled. ([1331268](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/plm-baking-stalls-after-completing-the-cpu-plm-bake-and-starting-a-bake-with-gpu-plm-via-the-lightmapping-api))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a5._
    
*   GI: Fixed the sky ambient probe and skybox reflection probe when reloading a scene in playmode. ([1331427](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-scenes-lighting-settings-are-not-updated-and-saved-when-auto-generate-option-is-disabled))
    
*   Graphics: Backport sllowing for Depth Sharing in Vulkan.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed double underscores in Hybrid Renderer shader constant names.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed incompatible render pass validation error in built-in pipeline project when graphics API is set to Vulkan. (1355666)  
    _First seen in 2022.1.0a1._
    
*   Graphics: Fixed potentially conflicting runtime Rendering Debugger UI command by adding an option to disable runtime UI altogether. ([1345783](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-it-is-not-possible-to-disable-the-runtime-debug-display-window-in-the-editor))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed sporadic crash when closing BuildSettings (and maybe other) windows when using Editor with Vulkan. ([1362844](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-editor-crashes-vk-optimusgetinstanceprocaddr-after-closing-build-settings-window))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0._
    
*   Graphics: Help boxes with fix buttons do not crop the label.
    
*   Graphics: Minor UX improvements on Quality Settings Panel.
    
*   HDRP: Added a new property to control the ghosting reduction for volumetric clouds. (1357702)
    
*   HDRP: Allow negative wind speed parameter.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed a nullref when binding a RTHandle allocated from a RenderTextureIdentifier with CoreUtils.SetRenderTarget.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Additional Velocity for Alembic not taking correctly into account vertex animation.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an inconsistency between perf mode and quality mode for material simplification in RTGI.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an inconsistency between perf mode and quality mode for sky lighting.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue that clamped the volumetric clouds offset value. (1357318)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue with volumetric clouds on vulkan. (1354802)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed assert failure when enabling the probe volume system for the first time.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed banding in the volumetric clouds. (1353672)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed case where the SceneView don't refresh when using LightExplorer with a running and Paused game. (1354129)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed controls for clouds fade in. (1353548)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed CPU performance on DLSS, avoiding to recreate state whenever a target can fall into the safe min/max resolution specified by the system.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed custom pass delete operation. ([1354871](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-unable-to-remove-custom-pass-item-from-custom-pass-volume))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed CustomPassUtils.Copy function not working on depth buffers.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed for allowing to change dynamic resolution upscale filter via script.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed impossibility to release the cursor in the template.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed incorrect light list indexing when TAA is enabled. ([1352444](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-planar-reflections-flicker-from-a-distance-when-taa-is-enabled))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue when switching between non-persistent cameras when path tarcing is enabled. ([1337843](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-dxr-game-view-becomes-black-when-switching-between-cameras-while-path-tracing-is-enabled))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with a compute dispatch being with 0 threads on extremely small resolutions.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with change in lens model (perfect or imperfect) wouldn't be taken into account unless the HDRP asset was rebuilt.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with the LayerMaskParameter class storing an erroneous mask value. ([1345515](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-dxr-a-gameobject-is-not-rendered-when-its-layer-is-4th-or-higher-and-path-tracing-layer-mask-has-one-layer-disabled))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with vertex color defaulting to 0.0 when not defined, in ray/path tracing. ([1348821](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-probuilder-meshs-texture-disappears-after-enabling-path-tracing))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed lens flare not rendering correctly with TAAU or DLSS.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed light anchor min distance value + properties not working with prefabs. (1345509)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed material inspector that allowed setting intensity to an infinite value.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed motion vector for custom meshes loaded from compute buffer in shader graph (like Hair).
    
*   HDRP: Fixed off by 1 error when calculating the depth pyramid texture size when DRS is on.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Render Graph Debug UI not refreshing correctly in the Rendering Debugger.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed specular occlusion sharpness and over darkening at grazing angles.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed TAA upsampling algorithm, now work properly.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the camera near plane not being taken into account when rendering the clouds. (1353548)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the clouds missing in the ambient probe and in the static and dynamic sky.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the earth curvature not being properly taken into account when evaluating the sun attenuation. (1357927)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the fallback sun for volumetric clouds having a non null intensity. ([1353955](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/volumetric-clouds-illuminated-when-no-directional-lights-are-present-in-the-scene))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the volumetric clouds having no control over the vertical wind. (1354920)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed ThreadMapDetail to saturate AO & smoothness strength inputs to prevent out-of-bounds values set by users. (1357740)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed update order in Graphics Compositor causing jumpy camera updates. ([1345566](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-culled-in-the-graphics-compositor-is-jumpy-when-the-main-camera-moves-too-fast))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed viewport size when TAA is executed after dynamic res upscale. (1348541)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed volume interpolation issue with ScalableSettingLevelParameter.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed wrong LUT initialization in Wireframe mode.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed wrong ordering in FrameSettings (Normalize Reflection Probes).
    
*   HDRP: Reduced the number shader variants for the volumetric clouds.
    
*   HDRP: Reduced the volumetric clouds pattern repetition frequency. (1358717)
    
*   HDRP: Removed DLSS keyword in settings search when NVIDIA package is not installed. ([1358409](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hidden-parameters-shouldnt-appear-in-the-search))
    
*   HDRP: Removed unsupported fields from Presets of Light, Camera, and Reflection Probes. (1335979)
    
*   HDRP: Significantly improved performance of APV probe debug.
    
*   HDRP: Support undo of HDRP Global Settings asset assignation.
    
*   HDRP: Viewport and scaling of Custom post process when TAAU or DLSS are enabled. ([1352407](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-game-view-gets-clipped-in-play-mode-when-using-custom-global-post-processing-volume-with-dlss-enabled))
    
*   HDRP: When the HDProjectSettings was being loaded on some cases the load of the ScriptableObject was calling the method `Reset` from the HDProjectSettings, simply rename the method to avoid an error log from the loading.
    
*   Input System: Fixed input events being lost on Android.  
    Optimized input processing performance. ([1337296](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/doubletap-not-working-some-specific-android-and-ios-devices))
    
*   Linux: Fixed editor crashing when closing a standalone profiler, or closing the editor after a standalone profiler was launched. (1347024)  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0._
    
*   Package: Com.unity.purchasing updated to 4.0.3. Please refer to the package changelog online here: https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.purchasing@4.0/changelog/CHANGELOG.html.
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed the issue where `Open in Unity` from the asset store website does not always work the first time. (1355418)
    
*   Profiler: Fixed player name label width in Player Connection dropdown to accommodate long strings. Fixed player name reported in Console window on connection to be consistent with Player Connection dropdown. Values in columns will now truncate with elipses if they are too large too fit in the column. When a player is selected the dropdown will now close to mimic the old dropdown behaviour.
    
*   Profiler: Player names are no longer aggresively cut off. (1345540)
    
*   Scene/Game View: Fixed Hierarchy not allowing drag and drop references to be placed between root objects marked as not editable. ([1337512](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-cannot-be-placed-between-objects-with-the-noteditable-flag-when-reordering-objects-in-the-hierarchy))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Scripting: Fixed Debug.LogFormat(LogType, LogOption, Object, string, params object\[\]) overload to respect logEnabled and filterLogType logger settings. ([1354586](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/message-gets-logged-in-the-console-when-using-debug-dot-logformat-and-the-logger-dot-logenabled-is-set-to-false))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Scripting: Fixed performance regression when activating/deactivating panels in a canvas. ([1348763](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-degradation-when-activating-or-deactivating-ugui-gameobject))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Serialization: Fixed a case where reading a corrupted binary file when corruption is within the header could lead to editor freezing. (1357823)
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a bug with Sprite Targets in ShaderGraph not rendering correctly in game view. ([1352225](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-shaders-are-not-rendered-in-game-view-from-2021-dot-2-0b2))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0b2._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a serialization bug wrt PVT property flags when using subgraphs. This fixes SRP batcher compatibility.
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed compilation problems on preview shader when using hybrid renderer v2 and property desc override Hybrid Per Instance.
    
*   Stadia: Building project with Stadia was broken. Fixed now. (1356829)
    
*   Stadia: Fixed for validation error during splash screen display on Stadia. (1343397)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Stadia: Running a project on Stadia kit got broken. Fixed now. (1356798)
    
*   uGUI: UGUI: This PR fixes a CPU performance issue, were the UI re-renders from scratch every time we select a delayed floating point component (on the IMGUI stack).  
    The reason is quite simple, a floating point comparison between the string representation and the double value is incorrect, causing to always be false.  
    This in turn causes the UI to always be tagged as dirty, and unleashes draw calls / flushing and many bad performance issues on the Editor loop. ([1353802](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fps-increases-after-reselecting-or-changing-dynamic-resolution-type-when-changing-dynamic-res-forced-screen-percent))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed animated reorderable ListView that was having broken item heights when they were dragged too fast. (1361734)
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed bad bounding box calculation causing clicking on rotated elements sometimes resulting in no click. ([1345300](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-button-does-not-respond-to-clicks-correctly-when-rotated))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed ClickEvent unpredictably not being sent on Android and iOS when the touch sequence spans over multiple update frames. ([1359485](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-clickevent-is-not-triggered-when-the-button-is-pressed-for-a-longer-time))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed corrupted atlas for Inter. ([1330758](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uir-graphview-text-contains-artifacts-when-the-graph-is-zoomed-out))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed hover state remaining after a touch event on iOS and Android. UI Toolkit runtime now ignores simulated mouse events if no mouse is present on the device. ([1326493](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-ui-toolkit-button-remains-in-hover-state-after-a-touch))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed infinite loop in CreateInspectorGUI if Editor contains a child InspectorElement targetting a different SerializedObject. ([1336093](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uitoolkit-createinspectorgui-is-called-and-stacked-infinitely))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed scroll wheel event modifiers not assigned when using EventSystem and StandaloneInputModule combination in UI Toolkit. ([1347855](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wheelevent-does-not-receive-modifiers-change-when-scrolling-mouse-wheel-and-holding-a-modifier-key))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed the missing Unicode arrow on ShaderGraph Transform Node. ([1333774](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-unicode-arrow-on-transform-node-no-longer-displays))
    
*   UI Toolkit: TextField text selection area is displayed incorrectly. ([1347904](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-textfield-text-selection-area-is-displayed-incorrectly))
    
*   URP: Fixed an issue where TerrainLit was rendering color lighter than Lit. ([1340751](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mobile-urp-gameobjects-with-terrainlit-shader-are-rendered-lighter-than-lit))
    
*   URP: Fixed an issue where the 2D Renderer was not rendering depth and stencil in the normal rendering pass.
    
*   URP: Fixed artifacts in Speed Tree 8 billboard LODs due to SpeedTree LOD smoothing/crossfading. ([1348407](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-speedtree-speedtree8-shader-has-an-artifact-when-convert-to-billboard-lod))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   URP: Fixed Camera rendering when capture action and post processing present. (1350313)
    
*   URP: Fixed graphical artefact when terrain height map is used with rendering layer mask for lighting.
    
*   URP: Fixed soft shadows shader variants not set to multi\_compile\_fragment on some shaders (gbuffer pass, speedtree shaders, WavingGrass shader).
    
*   URP: Fixed sporadic NaN when using normal maps with XYZ-encoding. ([1351020](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-urp-vulkan-nan-pixels-and-bloom-post-processing-generates-visual-artifacts))
    
*   URP: Removed unsupported fields from Presets of Light and Camera. (1335979)
    
*   URP: Support undo of URP Global Settings asset assignation.
    
*   VFX Graph: Compilation error undeclared identifier 'Infinity'. ([1328592](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-shader-errors-are-thrown-for-output-particle-quad-when-graph-contains-add-size-by-speed-block-with-matching-range-values))
    
*   VFX Graph: Compilation issue when normal is used in shadergraph for opacity with unlit output.
    
*   VFX Graph: Don't open an empty VFX Graph Editor when assigning a VFX Asset to a Visual Effect GameObject from the inspector. ([1347399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-assigning-an-empty-vfx-asset-to-vfx-game-object-results-in-a-duplicate))
    
*   VFX Graph: Exception using gizmo on exposed properties. ([1340818](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gizmos-all-exposed-shape-gizmos-break-and-throw-errors-upon-an-edit-attempt))
    
*   VFX Graph: Exposed Parameter placement can be moved after sanitize.
    
*   VFX Graph: Eye dropper in the color fields kept updating after pressing the Esc key.
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed Collision with Depth Buffer when using Orthographic camera. ([1309958](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-teleports-to-the-camera-position-when-the-vfx-has-a-collide-with-depth-buffer-block-and-projection-is-set-to-orthographic))
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed compilation failure on OpenGLES. ([1348666](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-opengles3-error-when-compiling-shaders-unexpected-token-number-at-kernel-csmain))
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed crash when loading SDF Baker settings holding a mesh prefab. ([1343898](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sdfbaker-unity-crash-when-switching-sdf-baker-saved-settings-containing-prefabs))
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed culling of point output. ([1225764](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/output-selection-outline-shows-a-point-in-the-middle-of-the-scene-view-when-indirect-draw-is-off))
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed Exception on trying to invert a degenerate TRS matrix. ([1307068](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-vfxexpressioninversetrsmatrix-used-on-a-not-trs-matrix-exception-is-thrown-when-sample-sdfs-size-is-set-to-0))
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed IsFrontFace shader graph node for VFX.
    
*   VFX Graph: Fixed rendering artifacts on some mobile devices. ([1149057](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lwrp-vfx-graph-projects-have-visual-artifacts-when-viewed-with-certain-mobile-gpus))
    
*   VFX Graph: GPU hang on some initialize dispatch during dichotomy (platform specific).
    
*   VFX Graph: In the Gradient editor undo will now properly refresh the gradient preview (color swatches).
    
*   VFX Graph: Inspector group headers now have a better indentation and alignment.
    
*   VFX Graph: Random crash using subgraph. ([1345426](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-trying-to-create-subgraph-operator))
    
*   VFX Graph: Visual Effect inspector input fields don't lose focus anymore while typing (Random seed).
    
*   VFX Graph: Zoom and warning icons were blurry in the "Play Controls" and "Visual Effect Model" scene overlays.
    
*   Video: Increased VideoClipImporter version following a fix that adds missing platform dependencies in this importer.