### Known Issues in 2021.2.0a10

*   Android: Fixes an issue that causes a "failed to load libMain.so" error when deploying an APK from an app bundle. ([1314472](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-app-installed-using-apk-from-app-bundle-option-in-android-studio-fails-to-run))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a11._
    
*   IL2CPP: Fixed bug that could cause MSVC based compilers to fail on compiling precompiled headers when Unity is installed to a path with spaces. ([1319442](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/building-projects-with-il2cpp-scripting-backend-on-windows-fail-due-to-fatal-error-c1083))  
    _This is a change to a 2021.2.0a8 change, not seen in any released version, and will not be mentioned in final notes._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a12._
    
*   iOS: Fixed FixedUpdate being called on startup more times than should be to account for Time.deltaTime on first Update ([1318647](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mobile-fixedupdate-gets-called-multiple-times-before-the-first-update-when-build-is-run-on-a-device))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a11._
    
*   macOS: HDRP template renders mostly a black scene on MacOS (1322946)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a12._
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed an issue where the `UnityEditor.PackageManager.Client.SearchAll` method would result in a connection error despite using `offlineMode = true`. ([1319585](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packagemanager-dot-client-dot-searchall-offlinemode-true-returns-an-error-if-user-offline))  
    _This is a change to a 2021.2.0a4 change, not seen in any released version, and will not be mentioned in final notes._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a12._
    
*   Physics: Fixed an issue with setting Surface Penetration to 0 on objects that were authored on one scale but used with another. This would manifest itself as incorrect particle separation behavior. ([1319488](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cloth-is-broken-when-parent-gameobject-scale-is-lower-than-1-and-surface-penetration-constraints-are-set-0))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a11._
    
*   Profiler: Maximizing the Profiler window whilst profiling the Editor will no longer cause a null argument exception. ([1315755](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-argumentnullexception-is-thrown-on-maximizing-profiler-window-when-editor-record-mode-is-set))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0a11._
    
*   MacOS: \[macOS\] "build is damaged and cannot be opened" error when downloading Unity build from internet ([1323501](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-build-is-damaged-and-cannot-be-opened-error-when-downloading-unity-build-from-internet))
    
*   Terrain: Crash on TreeRenderer::WillRenderTrees when being in Play Mode for several seconds ([1317966](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-treerenderer-willrendertrees-when-being-in-play-mode-for-several-seconds))
    
*   Global Illumination: Reflection probes doesn't contain indirect scene lighting after the on-demand GI bake from the Lighting window ([1324246](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/reflection-probes-doesnt-contain-indirect-scene-lighting-after-the-on-demand-gi-bake-from-the-lighting-window))
    
*   Scene Management: Editor crashes while undoing creation of prefab variant when base asset is deleted ([1324358](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-while-undoing-creation-of-prefab-variant-when-base-asset-is-deleted))
    
*   Packman: User can't easily configure location of both UPM and Asset Store package local cache ([1317232](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-cant-easily-configure-location-of-both-upm-and-asset-store-package-local-cache))
    
*   Linux: Linux Editor crashes at "\_XFreeX11XCBStructure" when loading tutorials ([1323204](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-crashes-at-xfreex11xcbstructure-when-loading-tutorials))
    
*   Templates: Editor Crashes when performing Undo and Redo after duplicating Game Object with LEGO Model Asset component ([1298503](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-redoing-and-undoing-pasting-prefabs-in-scene-in-lego-microgame))
    
*   IMGUI: Contents of a ModalUtility window are invisible when it is launched from a Unity Context Menu ([1313636](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-displaying-showmodalutility-window))
    
*   IL2CPP: \[macOS\]\[IL2CPP\] Build fails when there are spaces in the project path ([1322085](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-il2cpp-build-fails-when-there-are-spaces-in-the-project-path))
    
*   MacOS: Resigning Unity built macOS app results in "code signature data out of place" out of place error ([1324168](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/resigning-unity-built-macos-app-results-in-code-signature-data-out-of-place-out-of-place-error))
    
*   Global Illumination: Performance regression when baking light probes with a light cookie in the scene ([1323393](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-regression-when-baking-light-probes-with-a-light-cookie-in-the-scene))
    
*   Mono: Crash on System.Net.Sockets.Socket:QueueIOSelectorJob when using a VPN and opening a project that uses Visual Studio ([1308797](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-system-dot-net-dot-sockets-dot-socket-queueioselectorjob-when-using-a-vpn-and-opening-a-project-that-uses-visual-studio))
    
*   WebGL: \[macOS\] Build fails when WebGL Platform is selected ([1322929](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-build-fails-when-webgl-platform-is-selected))
    
*   Terrain: Terrain Lit Opacity as Density option causes alpha'd areas on the 5th layer or greater to appear with artifacts ([1283124](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-lit-opacity-as-density-option-causes-alphad-areas-on-the-5th-layer-or-greater-to-appear-with-artifacts))
    
*   Global Illumination: Wintermute::Geometry::Verify errors are spammed when baking a Mesh with Mesh Compression set to Medium/High ([1319133](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/speedtree-asset-breaks-when-trying-to-lightmap))
    
*   Shader System: Editor crashes on UpgradeOldShaderSyntax when shaders are being upgraded during importing process ([1299790](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-upgradeoldshadersyntax-when-shaders-are-being-upgraded-during-importing-process))
    
*   MacOS: MacOS editor fails to load platform editor extensions ([1322945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/download-assistant-opening-file-failed-popup-appears-on-creating-slash-upgrading-any-project-when-the-editor-is-installed-via-da))
    
*   Addressable Assets: Performance bug reported by the DOTS team in PreloadManager::WaitForAllOperationToComplete ([1322086](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-bug-reported-by-the-dots-team-in-preloadmanager-waitforalloperationtocomplete))
    
*   iOS: \[WebGL\] \[iOS\] video is not playing on iOS ([1288692](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-ios-video-is-not-playing-on-ios))
    
*   Templates: \[HUB\]\[Templates\] Two URP and HDRP templates show up in the HUB ([1322632](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hub-templates-two-urp-and-hdrp-templates-show-up-in-the-hub))
    
*   Serialization: Crash in SerializedProperty::IsValid when reordering a SerializedProperty list ([1320319](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-serializedproperty-isvalid-when-reordering-a-serializedproperty-list))
    
*   Packman: Package Manager incorrectly shows that there are no packages in a new project ([1319205](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-manager-falsely-shows-that-there-are-no-packages-in-a-new-project))
    
*   Asset Bundles: Synchronous Asset Loading Does Not Correctly Load Preload Dependencies ([1321141](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/synchronous-asset-loading-does-not-correctly-load-preload-dependencies))
    
*   Global Illumination: \[GPUPLM\] Crash in RadeonRaysMeshManager::RemoveGeometry while baking Terrain game object with 4k lightmaps on certain GPU ([1255993](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/global-illumination-editor-crashes-while-baking-terrain-game-object-using-progressive-gpu-lightmapper))
    
*   UI Builder: Visual Studio opens up instead of UI Builder on double-clicking on uXML file in the Project window ([1298297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-visual-studio-opens-up-instead-of-ui-builder-on-double-clicking-on-uxml-file-in-the-project-window))
    
*   MacOS: \[Metal\]\[Editor\] Memory grows continuously until Editor crashes when importing 100k materials ([1214197](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-editor-memory-grows-continuously-until-editor-crashes-when-importing-100k-materials))
    
*   Project Browser: Basic primitive Meshes are not shown in Select Mesh window ([1314696](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/basic-primitive-meshes-are-not-shown-in-select-mesh-window))
    
*   WebGL: \[Audio\] "Cannot create FMOD" Error when importing 3D Game Kit project on webGL ([1293595](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-cannot-create-fmod-error-when-importing-3d-game-kit-project-on-webgl))
    
*   Templates: \[Linux\] Missing libdl.so library causes crash when entering Playmode for the second time or closing the Editor ([1237642](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-libdl-dot-so-library-causes-crash-when-entering-playmode-for-the-second-time-or-closing-the-editor))
    
*   MacOS: \[Mac OS\] Building Standalone project for Mac when Generate Xcode project is enabled generates both a folder and .xcodeproj ([1288729](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-os-building-standalone-project-for-mac-when-generate-xcode-project-is-enabled-generates-both-a-folder-and-xcodeproj))
    

### New 2021.2.0a10 Entries since 2021.2.0a9

#### Features

*   2D: Allow users to create and define scriptable tools for the Tile Palette window.
    
*   Editor: Added 'Diagnostics' section to Preferences window to help with remote troubleshooting. Please note that this section is not intended for users to interact with except when requested by Unity Support.
    
*   Graphics: Allow for DX12 to work on Hololens with OpenXR.
    

#### Improvements

*   Asset Import: Improved overall performance of FBX files import.
    
*   Asset Import: Improved performance of ASCII FBX files import.
    
*   Asset Import: Small improvement to model import times for models that contain animations.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Improved the performance of the build pipeline by allowing concurrent shader cache read access.
    
*   Editor: Inspector number fields support more math expressions now: functions (`sqrt`, `sin`, `cos`, `tan`, `floor`, `ceil`, `round`), distribution over multi-selection (`L`, `R`) and can refer to current value to change it across multi-selection (`+=3`, `*=2`).
    
*   Editor: Updated ASTC texture compressor for about 30% compression time speedup.
    
*   Kernel: Improved code quality and amount of allocations in some of our base abstraction layers.
    
*   Package: (VisualScripting) Names in different UI elements made to be more consistent with new naming schemes.
    
*   Package: (VisualScripting) User interface updated.
    
*   Prefabs: Added public API for PrefabStageUtility.OpenPrefab() now that PrefabStage has moved out of Experimental namespace. (1313937)  
    _This is a change to a 2021.2.0 change, not seen in any released version, and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shadergraph: Added View Vector Node doc.
    
*   UI Toolkit: Buttons are now focusable.
    
*   Video: VideoPlayer now has a better automatic selection of target material texture property. It detects \[MainTexture\] attributes, then falls back to \_MainTex naming convention.
    
*   Web: Updated UnityWebRequest's libCurl backend (used on most platforms).
    
*   XR: New reference objects can now be added at runtime. Added support for ARCore session recording and playback.
    

#### API Changes

*   Graphics: Added: Calculating correct rtHandleScale by considering the possible pixel rounding when DRS is on.
    
*   Graphics: Added: Method to generate a Texture2D of 1x1 with a plain color.
    
*   Graphics: Added: Red, Green, Blue Texture2D on CoreEditorStyles.
    
*   Graphics: Added: Support for additional properties for Volume Components without custom editor.
    
*   HDRP: Added a Falloff Mode (Linear or Exponential) in the Density Volume for volume blending with Blend Distance.
    
*   HDRP: Added a setting in the HDRP asset to change the Density Volume mask resolution of being locked at 32x32x32 (HDRP Asset > Lighting > Volumetrics > Max Density Volume Size).
    
*   Profiler: Added Profiler.EmitSessionMetaData api to pass generic metadata to the Profiler associated with profiling session.
    

#### Changes

*   Build Pipeline: Unity will no longer write unsaved changes from open scenes into player builds. Instead, it will ask to save changes to disk.
    
*   Burst: Tweaked how the IL Post Processed 'direct call' Burst function pointers are compiled so that the compilation is deferred until they are needed (previously we'd enqueue them all for compilation on a domain reload).
    
*   Editor: Changed the behaviour of an Editor Window to ignore minimum and maximum sizes when being docked, and let each window define how they should adapt to the available space. ([1269298](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-manager-window-does-not-expand-when-its-docked-to-a-small-width-size-window))
    
*   Graphics: Changed GameObject/Rendering/Decal Projector to GameObject/Decal Projector.
    
*   Graphics: Changed GameObject/Rendering/Density Volume to GameObject/Volume/Density Volume.
    
*   Graphics: Changed GameObject/Volume/Sky and Fog Volume to GameObject/Volume/Sky and Fog Global Volume.
    
*   Graphics: Changed the handling of additional properties to base class.
    
*   Graphics: Volume Gizmo alpha changed from 0.5 to 0.125.
    
*   HDRP: Avoid unnecessary RenderGraphBuilder.ReadTexture in the "Set Final Target" pass.
    
*   HDRP: Changed Path Tracing's maximum intensity from clamped (0 to 100) to positive value. (1310514)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Decreased the minimal Fog Distance value in the Density Volume to 0.05.
    
*   HDRP: Density Volumes can now take a 3D RenderTexture as mask, the mask can use RGBA format for RGB fog.
    
*   HDRP: Display a warning help box when decal atlas is out of size.
    
*   HDRP: Improved the Camera Inspector, new sections and better grouping of fields.
    
*   HDRP: Moved the HDRP render graph debug panel content to the Rendering debug panel.
    
*   Package: Updated Code Coverage package to v1.0.0.
    
*   Package: Updated com.unity.purchasing version to 3.0.1.
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where the shader variant limit exceeded message was not getting passed. ([1304168](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-graph-throws-a-nullreferenceexception-and-becomes-unresponsive-when-a-keyword-or-a-complex-sub-graph-is-added))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shadergraph: Prevent users from setting enum keywords with duplicate reference names and invalid characters. ([1287335](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-choosing-two-enum-keyword-display-names-that-dont-overlap-but-make-the-reference-names-overlap-causes-desync))
    
*   Shadergraph: Updated/corrected View Direction doc.
    
*   Shaders: Added shader warning when reserved constants names with consecutive underscores are used.
    
*   Universal: Changed UniversalRenderPipelineCameraEditor to URPCameraEditor.
    
*   Universal: Improved URP profiling scopes. Remove low impact scopes from the command buffer for a small performance gain. Fix the name and invalid scope for context.submit() scope. Change the default profiling name of ScriptableRenderPass to Unnamed\_ScriptableRenderPass.
    
*   Universal: Reduced the size of the fragment input struct of the TerrainLitPasses and LitGBufferPass, SimpleLitForwardPass and SimpleLitGBufferPass lighting shaders.
    
*   VFX Graph: Sphere and Cube outputs are now experimental.
    

#### Fixes

*   2D: Fixed issue when the size of a GridSelection is set to negative values. ([1318891](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-multiple-errors-thrown-continuously-on-resizing-the-grid-size-of-tilemap))
    
*   2D: Fixed issue where Tilemap does not preserve transform changes or color when inserting or deleting cells. (1315084)
    
*   AI: Fixed overshooting destination for agent without auto-braking. (1305780)
    
*   AI: Fixed the gizmos of navigation OffMeshLinks when the distance from start to end is small. (805223)
    
*   Animation: Fixed humanoid SetLookAtWeight method for weights larger than 0.5. ([1307253](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clampweight-doesnt-behave-correctly-when-set-to-1-and-applied-in-animator-dot-setlookatweight))
    
*   Animation: Fixed issue where Timeline would stay stuck after going to Play Mode. ([1315060](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-stays-stuck-after-going-to-play-mode))
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed performance regression of animation import from FBX files. ([1265275](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-regression-importing-an-fbx-model-is-noticeably-slower-when-the-model-contains-animations))
    
*   Asset Import: GameObjects & Prefabs can no longer be duplicated using Ctrl + D. ([1304106](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/duplicating-a-mesh-inside-fbx-container-works-but-throws-errors))
    
*   Asset Import: Texture Importer Inspector no longer throws errors when built-in texture inspector is overwritten. ([1317450](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-importer-inspector-throws-errors-when-a-built-in-texture-inspector-is-overwritten-in-c-number))
    
*   Bug Reporter: Multiple Qt library copies are no longer included.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed an edge case where windows relative paths were not handled correctly. ([1318673](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/test-framework-playerbuildinterface-dot-compileplayerscripts-causes-dll-not-found-errors-1))
    
*   Burst: Broken link restored for known issues with debugging and profiling.
    
*   Burst: Fixed a bug where having any \[DllImport\] in a class that used the Direct Call mechanism could result in an illegal CompileFunctionPointer call being produced by our post processor.
    
*   Burst: Fixed some intrinsics not checking target CPU against required CPU, so it was possible to use some intrinsics without an IsXXXSupported check.
    
*   Burst: Internal Compiler Error if a call was discarded (via BurstDiscard for example), but the callsites required an ABI transform e.g. struct return.
    
*   Burst: PDB debug information for instance methods that also used struct return were incorrect.
    
*   Burst: When generating Line Table only debug information, an unreachable could occur due to a missing check.
    
*   Editor: ASTC texture compression should be platform and hardware invariant now (i.e. produce exactly the same results between AMD and Intel CPUs for example, which was not always the case before). ([1307140](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-bundles-assets-have-different-crcs-when-built-on-diferent-editor-versions-or-operating-systems))
    
*   Editor: Collab - defer handling for downloading plastic cloud projects so package manager will initialize the default packages. (1319580)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed "TLS Allocator" error when using Asset Store Tools. ([1303631](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tls-allocator-error-when-using-asset-store-tools))
    
*   Editor: Fixed a crash that occurred when using the Memory Profiler to capture memory use for very large scenes. (1316870)
    
*   Editor: Fixed a regression with Inspector rebuild that was breaking SerializedProperties after inspector refresh. ([1317257](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-nullreferenceexception-and-argumentnullexception-errors-thrown-on-changing-the-name-property-of-the-renderer-feature))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed add an extra null check for monitor enumeration. (1320164)
    
*   Editor: Fixed an issue where the Material selector was not able to reach out to the changed property after one Material change. ([1315779](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/color-picker-controls-are-assigned-new-controlid-when-saving-current-scene))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed context-click for reorderable lists in the mac editor. ([1313317](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-context-menu-is-not-opened-when-right-clicking-on-an-array-element-in-the-inspector-window))
    
*   Editor: Fixed Ctrl-click on macOS editor not bringing up "Properties..." context menu on inspector object reference fields properly. ([1316779](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-ctrl-plus-click-does-not-open-context-menu-in-the-inspector))
    
*   Editor: Fixed debug assert message in MenuControllerLinux.cpp's OnSizeAllocate() call to GetGtkWindowSize(). (1319050)
    
*   Editor: Fixed for changes in Window with 'hasUnsavedChanges' not being saved and not getting Unsaved Changes Popup when Editor is being closed. ([1307677](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-in-window-with-hasunsavedchanges-are-not-being-saved-and-gets-no-unsaved-changes-popup-when-editor-is-being-closed))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed for Window with 'hasUnsavedChanges' set to true not being saved when closed with Middle Mouse Button. ([1307671](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unsaved-changes-detected-popup-is-not-being-shown-when-tab-with-changes-is-closed-with-middle-mouse-button))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed Null reference exception regression in Inspectors. ([1317707](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preset-nullreferenceexception-error-thrown-on-disabling-auto-graphics-api-for-windows-checkbox-in-player-settings-preset-ass))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed Null reference exception regression in Inspectors. ([1318535](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-unable-to-add-overrides-in-volume-profile))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed NullReferenceException thrown when clicking "Take Snapshot" button in the Scene Template inspector window. ([1317724](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-on-clicking-take-snapshot-button-in-indoors-slash-outdoors-scene-template))
    
*   Editor: Fixed pivot settings buttons in top toolbar not updating scene views immediately. ([1300924](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/imgui-toggle-tool-handle-rotation-changes-only-get-reflected-when-mouse-hovered-over-an-object-in-the-scene-view))
    
*   Editor: Fixed progress bar related asserts when calling EditorUtility.CompressTexture with an EditorUtility.DisplayProgressBar right around it. ([1308740](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-in-console-when-using-the-progress-bar-api-along-with-texture-compression))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Fixed scene view selection outline rendering for transparent objects. ([1316083](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particle-system-is-not-rendering-properly-in-the-scene-view))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Gracefully exit editor in the case where shader compiler process cannot be launched due to external conditions. ([1319336](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-pal-localipc-isconnected-when-ipc-fails-on-launch))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Make sure Undo menu is only defined once. ([1320268](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-about-unable-to-add-internal-undo-related-menu-item-appears-after-each-compilation))  
    _This is a change to a 2021.2.0a9 change, not seen in any released version, and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: Prevent crash when running editor with Mac system debug menu enabled through defaults. ([1301807](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-crash-on-cocoamainmenu-additems-tomenu-when-apple-internal-debug-menu-is-enabled-on-a-macos))
    
*   Editor: Switching a material in the ObjectSelector doesn't break the event system of IMGUI anymore. ([1308966](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-switch-to-different-material-when-selecting-another-material-from-asset-selector-window-on-particle-system-material))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Editor: There is now a prompt to save changes if the layout is changed. ([1318376](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-layout-or-maximizing-closes-windows-with-changes-but-does-not-prompt-save-dialog))
    
*   Editor: Undo name has more detail. (1320289)  
    _This is a change to a 2021.2.0a9 change, not seen in any released version, and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   GI: Fixed a null pointer bug in graphics bindings. ([1310875](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-rendererscripting-updategimaterialsforrenderer-when-calling-updategimaterials-on-a-null-renderer))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   GI: Fixed some fallbacks from GPULM to CPULM when using baked lighting and cookies. (1320169)
    
*   GI: Prevent assert from being fired when switching to a lighting data asset from a scene that is unloaded but still in the hierarchy. ([1318347](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-failed-on-expression-manager-equals-null-error-is-shown-after-changing-lighting-data-asset-file-for-the-active-scene))  
    _This is a change to a 2021.2.0 change, not seen in any released version, and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Graphics: Disabled ShadowCaster pass in Output Meshes if castShadows is disabled.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed an issue with ReadPixels() over 3 API's, where the first slice would always be returned instead of the specified depth slice. The bug was being caused by the active cubemap face only being used, the fix checks whether it should use the active depth slice or cubemap face. ([979487](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture2d-dot-readpixels-does-not-take-into-account-the-specified-depthslice))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed deadlock when scanning for mip streaming textures associated with a renderer. ([1318903](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-build-becomes-unresponsive-in-texture-streaming))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Graphics: Fixed missing buffer binding through Shader.SetGlobalBuffer after dispatching compute. ([1313736](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-metal-mac-project-crashes-on-launch-when-binding-compute-buffer-to-shader))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed problem on domain reload of Volume Parameter Ranges and UI values.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Right Align of additional properties on Volume Components Editors.
    
*   Graphics: Input delay in Vulkan standalone when VSync is enabled has been reduced. ([1282463](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/noticable-mouse-and-keyboard-input-delay-on-a-vulkan-standalone-build-when-vsync-is-enabled))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed a limit case when the camera is exactly at the lower cloud level. (1316988)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed ability to override AlphaToMask FrameSetting while camera in deferred lit shader mode.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed ability to override AlphaToMask FrameSetting while camera in deferred lit shader mode.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue in the planar reflection probe convolution.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue with debug overriding emissive material color for deferred path. (1313123)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed decal normal for double sided materials. (1312065)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed error when opening the default composition graph in the Graphics Compositor. (1318933)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed gizmo rendering when wireframe mode is selected.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed HDRP material being constantly dirty.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Intensity Multiplier not affecting realtime global illumination.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue of accessing default frame setting stored in current HDRPAsset instead fo the default HDRPAsset.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue that caused a rebake of Probe Volume Data to see effect of changed normal bias.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with automatic exposure settings not updating scene view.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with physically-based DoF computation and transparent materials with depth-writes ON.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with velocity rejection in post-DoF TAA. Fixing this reduces ghosting. (1304381)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed loss of persistency of ratio between pivot position and size when sliding by 0 in DecalProjector inspector. (1308338)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Missing lighting quality settings for SSGI. (1312067)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed missing option to use POM on emissive for tessellated shaders.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed multiple HDRP Frame Settings panel issues: missing "Refraction" Frame Setting. Fixing ordering of Rough Distortion, it should now be under the Distortion setting.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed nullref when adding a volume component in a Volume profile asset. ([1317156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-nullreference-error-when-adding-any-override-to-a-volume))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed resize IES when already baked in the Atlas. ([1299233](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-ies-profile-breaks-point-light-after-increasing-resolution-past-1024))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   HDRP: Fixed Rough Distortion frame setting not greyed out when Distortion is disabled in HDRP Asset.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed spacing on LayerListMaterialUIBlock.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed SSGI frame setting not greyed out while SSGI is disabled in HDRP Asset.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the various history buffers being discarded when the fog was enabled/disabled. (1316072)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed wizard checking FrameSettings not in HDRP Default Settings.
    
*   HDRP: Generating a GUIContent with an Icon instead of making MaterialHeaderScopes drawing a Rect every time.
    
*   Linux: Fixed mismatch profiler BeginSample/EndSample errors when interacting with a modal dialog while the profiler is active in Editor mode. ([1306180](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-non-matching-profiler-error-thrown-on-clicking-the-restore-defaults-option-when-target-selection-is-editor))
    
*   Linux: Prevent endless "Compiling Scripts" loop when switching between platform targets with the player settings window open. ([1315432](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-gets-stuck-in-a-compiling-scripts-and-reloading-assemblies-loop-when-project-settings-window-is-open))  
    _This is a change to a 2021.2.0a5 change, not seen in any released version, and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Mobile: Errors are thrown on installing Adaptive Performance Package when Simulator window is open. ([1296672](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adaptive-performance-errors-are-thrown-on-installing-adaptive-performance-package-when-simulator-window-is-open))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Mobile: Min and Max values are not saved after it is typed and the labels are too long. ([1304020](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adaptive-performance-ux-adaptive-framerate-or-adaptive-resolution-min-and-max-values-are-not-saved-after-it-is-typed))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Mobile: Scaler options Checkboxes are misaligned in the Simulator window. ([1297030](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adaptive-performance-scaler-options-checkboxes-are-misaligned-in-the-simulator-window))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Mobile: Show provider icon and info text correctly.
    
*   Mobile: When the settings view is narrowed "View license" text appears on top of the toggle. ([1303986](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adaptive-performance-ux-when-the-settings-view-is-narrowed-view-license-text-appears-on-top-of-the-toggle))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Package: Fixed bug that causes searcher window to be offset too far when accounting for host window boundaries.\].
    
*   Package: Fixed bug that causes searcher window to close when double-clicking a category. ([1302267](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-double-clicking-a-category-or-drop-down-arrow-closes-the-searcher))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed an issue where manually embedded packages from the project cache are not added in Perforce. ([1314073](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/manually-embedded-packages-are-not-added-in-perforce))
    
*   Particles: Added missing particle attributes to the C# Job System integration. ([1312288](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystemjobdata-does-not-expose-methods-for-modifying-mesh-index-when-using-unityengine-dot-particlesystemjobs))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Particles: Fixed crash when using modules with no assigned Particle System. ([1319658](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-particlesystem-shapemodule-custom-set-sprite-injected-when-changing-the-shape-dot-sprite-of-a-null-particlesystem))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Particles: Fixed invalid AABB error when using Rate over Distance and Limit Velocity. ([1317418](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalid-aabb-error-is-thrown-when-moving-a-particle-with-velocity-over-lifetime-and-limit-velocity-over-lifetime-modules))
    
*   Particles: Removed 2 decimal point restriction from Duration property. ([1319730](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-duration-propertys-value-has-double-precision))
    
*   Physics: Fixed an issue with Cloth disallowing SkinnedMeshRenderer bounds update outside of playmode. ([1316947](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/skinnedmeshrenderer-bounds-are-not-automatically-readjusted-after-changing-the-mesh-with-a-cloth-component))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Physics: Made mesh collider error more descriptive by including the path to the object. ([1318366](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/this-meshcollider-requires-the-mesh-to-be-marked-as-readable-error-does-not-give-enough-information-to-find-gameobject))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Prefabs: Added error message to prevent entering playmode when the scene contains missing Prefabs instances. Added option to Unpack Prefabs when deleting them.
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed that changes to Prefab instances in the Scene are not reflected when dragging Materials/Scripts onto the Asset in the Project Window. ([1311622](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-to-prefab-in-the-scene-are-not-reflected-when-dragging-materials-slash-scripts-onto-the-asset-in-the-project-window))
    
*   Prefabs: Removed wrong error message. ([1287903](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-prefab-instance-was-disconnected-during-deactivation-while-merging-dot-error-is-thrown-when-modifying-and-saving-a-prefab))
    
*   Profiler: Fixed memory tracking of UnsafeUtility allocations. ([1320540](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unsafeutility-dot-malloc-allocations-are-not-tracked-correctly-in-memory-profiler-and-leak-memory))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed crash that was caused by passing a generic type into FindObjectsOfType. ([1312890](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mono-unity-crashes-when-calling-findobjectsoftype-with-a-generic-abstract-class-type-that-derives-from-monobehaviour))
    
*   Serialization: Fixed crash when entering play mode or on domain reload with a MonoBehaviour larger than 2,147,483,647 bytes. ([1313492](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-raiseexception-when-allocating-huge-amount-of-memory))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shaders: Fixed incorrect array subscripts generated for OpenGL, OpenGL ES, Metal and Vulkan when using arrays or structs in global scope. ([1318555](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-shader-compilation-fails-when-shader-uses-an-array-of-structs))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shaders: Fixed reflection reporting for structs in the global scope for OpenGL and OpenGL ES. ([1318610](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/having-a-struct-in-the-global-cbuffer-makes-openglcore-and-gles3-targets-not-report-reflection-for-the-cbuffer))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shaders: Fixed reflection reporting for structs inside constant buffers for OpenGL, OpenGL ES and Metal. ([1318619](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gl-shader-reflection-is-truncated-or-crash-occurs-when-struct-is-used-from-named-cbuffer-with-at-least-one-other-constant))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shaders: Fixed reflection reporting for structs inside constant buffers for Vulkan. ([1318559](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/struct-reflection-is-not-reported-when-compiling-vulkan-or-metal-shaders))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   UI Toolkit: Fixed left-click not opening EnumField after using ContextMenu on MacOS. ([1311011](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-macos-node-dropdown-does-not-open-when-it-is-clicked-after-right-clicking-on-the-background))
    
*   UI Toolkit: Improved readability of USS import error/warnings. (1295682)
    
*   UI Toolkit: Nested UI Document allowed changing the Panel Settings once. (1315242)
    
*   UI Toolkit: The label of a focused Foldout now has its color changed. (1311200)
    
*   Universal: Fixed a regression where the precision was changed. ([1313942](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-shader-precision-is-reduced-to-half-when-scriptablerenderfeature-class-is-in-the-project))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where 2D lighting was incorrectly calculated when using a perspective camera.
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where bokeh dof is applied incorrectly when there is an overlay camera in the camera stack. ([1303572](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-bokeh-depth-of-field-is-applied-incorrectly-when-the-main-camera-has-an-overlay-camera-in-the-camera-stack))
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where motion blur would allocate memory each frame. ([1314613](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-gc-alloc-increases-when-motion-blur-override-is-enabled-with-intensity-set-above-0))
    
*   Universal: Fixed an issue where SSAO would sometimes not render with a recently imported renderer.
    
*   Universal: Fixed SafeNormalize returning invalid vector when using half with zero length. (1315956)
    
*   Universal: Fixed shadowCoord error when main light shadow defined in unlit shader graph.
    
*   VFX Graph: Prevent infinite compilation loop. ([1298466](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/visual-effect-graph-infinite-compilation-when-opening))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   VFX Graph: Removed some useless compilation triggers (modifying not connected or disabled nodes for instance).
    
*   Video: Calling VideoPlayer.Prepare and VideoPlayer.StepForward produces a frame on a Render Texture. ([1318270](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/calling-videoplayer-dot-prepare-and-videoplayer-dot-stepforward-produces-a-frame-on-a-render-texture))
    
*   WebGL: Fixed layout of WebGL template custom properties in the project settings. ([1316210](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-template-variables-are-inlined))
    
*   WebGL: Fixed video textures not getting converted to linear color space. ([1314263](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-colors-in-the-video-are-too-light-slash-incorrect-when-using-video-player-component-and-color-space-is-set-to-linear))
    
*   XR: Fixed camera depth normals pass in XR. ([1284715](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-sdk-ssao-effect-is-broken-slash-inverted-when-single-pass-instanced-rendering-mode-is-used))
    
*   XR: Fixed non-fullscreen viewport rect handling on non-stereo cameras when XR devices are enabled. ([1319352](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/non-stereo-viewport-rects-are-incorrect-in-vr-mode))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   XR: Fixed rect used by scissor test on Vulkan. (1203183)
    
*   XR: XRDisplaySubsystem and XRInputSubsystem now available on WebGL build target. (1283105)