### Known Issues in 2021.2.0b2

*   2D: 2D Animations crash when entering Play Mode ([1338523](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-animations-crash-when-entering-play-mode))
    
*   AI: Crash with ComputeTileMeshJob when generating Navmesh ([1329346](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-with-computetilemeshjob-when-generating-navmesh))
    
*   Asset Importers: \[MacOS\] Second Unity instance in Activity Monitor is "not responding” after importing ([1331736](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-second-unity-instance-in-activity-monitor-is-not-responding-after-importing))
    
*   Audio: Crash on AudioMixer\_CUSTOM\_FindSnapshot when passing null as an argument to FindSnapshot() ([1341752](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-audiomixer-custom-findsnapshot-when-passing-null-as-an-argument-to-findsnapshot))
    
*   Audio: Error is thrown when Audio Clip is selected in the Project Browser ([1345239](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-is-thrown-when-audio-clip-is-selected-in-the-project-browser))
    
*   Global Illumination: Crash while sculpting Terrain and Baking Lightmaps ([1266511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-while-sculpting-terrain))
    
*   Global Illumination: \[GI\] Lightmap reference is lost when static object is moved ([1339841](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-gi-lightmap-reference-is-lost-when-static-object-is-moved))
    
*   HD RP: HDRP Template fills the Console with "Shader error...couldn't open include file" messages after building the project ([1342989](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-template-fills-the-console-with-shader-error-dot-dot-dot-couldnt-open-include-file-messages-after-building-the-project))
    
*   IMGUI: Editor's Toolbar is sometimes replaced by a white bar when opening any Scene ([1341951](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/white-screen-replaces-the-play-scale-position-bars-editor-cannot-play))
    
*   Input: Mouse events are not always fired when VSync is off ([1331894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mouse-events-are-not-always-fired-when-vsync-is-off))
    
*   Input: Touch Input doesn't work in Play Mode when running an Editor on a Touchscreen device ([1341159](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/touch-input-doesnt-work-in-play-mode-when-running-an-editor-on-a-touchscreen-device))
    
*   Linux: Editor crashes at 'GfxFramebufferGLES::SetBackBufferColorDepthSurface' or freezes when creating a new shortcut profile ([1334874](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-at-gfxframebuffergles-setbackbuffercolordepthsurface-or-freezes-when-creating-a-new-shortcut-profile))
    
*   Metal: Performance in Game View is significantly impacted by Gfx.WaitForPresentOnGfxThread when a second monitor is connected ([1327408](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-in-game-view-is-significantly-impacted-by-gfx-dot-waitforpresentongfxthread-when-a-second-monitor-is-connected))
    
*   Mobile: \[Android\] Build fails when there are 680 or more files in the Streaming Assets folder ([1272592](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-build-fails-when-there-are-680-or-more-files-in-the-streaming-assets-folder))
    
*   Mobile Graphics: \[iOS\] Player crashing when connecting external Display via USB-C port ([1321153](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-player-crashing-when-connecting-external-display-via-usb-c-port))
    
*   Packman: User can't easily configure location of both UPM and Asset Store package local cache ([1317232](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-cant-easily-configure-location-of-both-upm-and-asset-store-package-local-cache))
    
*   Profiler: Fixed System.Thread threads tracking and visualization in Timeline view of Profiler Window. ([1339407](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/poor-profiler-performance-when-navigating-the-timeline-view-and-reviewing-data-with-many-threads))  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0b3._
    
*   Quality of Life: Crash in SerializedProperty::IsValid when reordering a SerializedProperty list ([1320319](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-serializedproperty-isvalid-when-reordering-a-serializedproperty-list))
    
*   Scene Management: Crash on BuildPrefabInstanceCorrespondingObjectMap when overriding nested prefab inside AssetDatabase.StartAssetEditing() block ([1324978](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-buildprefabinstancecorrespondingobjectmap-when-overriding-nested-prefab-inside-assetdatabase-dot-startassetediting-block))
    
*   Scene Management: Recent Scenes break after upgrading project ([1338322](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/recent-scenes-break-after-upgrading-project))
    
*   Scene/Game View: Editor performance in the Scene View regressed drastically when multi selecting GameObjects ([1329140](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-performance-in-the-scene-view-regressed-drastically-when-multi-selecting-gameobjects))
    
*   Scripting: DomainReloadTests performance tests have regressed due to removal of built-in support for Visual Studio as a code editor ([1336648](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/domainreloadtests-performance-tests-have-regressed-due-to-removal-of-built-in-support-for-visual-studio-as-a-code-editor))
    
*   Scripting: Increased Script Assembly reload time ([1323490](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/increased-reload-time))
    
*   Shaders: Fixed a regression in draw call performance after switching to dynamic keyword limits. ([1333713](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-regression-with-the-new-keyword-system))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a16._  
    _Fixed in 2021.2.0b3._
    
*   Templates: Editor Crashes when performing Undo and Redo after duplicating Game Object with LEGO Model Asset component ([1298503](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-redoing-and-undoing-pasting-prefabs-in-scene-in-lego-microgame))
    
*   UI Toolkit: \[Shadergraph\] "Transform" node no longer appears in searcher when typed ([1344825](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-transform-node-no-longer-appears-in-searcher-when-typed))
    
*   Video: Video player fails to start playing and null handle errors are thrown when running Unity Editor/Build with specific hardware ([1237818](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-player-fails-to-start-playing-and-null-handle-errors-are-thrown-when-running-unity-editor-slash-build-with-specific-hardware))
    
*   Vulkan: Linux Editor using Vulkan crashes at " GfxDeviceVK::EnsureValidBackbuffer" when showing tooltips for ProBuilder buttons ([1335846](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-using-vulkan-crashes-at-gfxdevicevk-ensurevalidbackbuffer-when-showing-tooltips-for-probuilder-buttons))
    
*   WebGL: \[iOS\] Video is not playing ([1288692](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-ios-video-is-not-playing-on-ios))
    
*   WebGL: WebGL fails building on Windows 7 ([1340260](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-fails-building-on-windows-7))
    
*   Windows: Editor crashes when exiting and keeping a tutorial project ([1338299](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-exiting-and-keeping-a-new-micrograme-project))
    

### New 2021.2.0b2 Entries since 2021.2.0b1

#### API Changes

*   Graphics: Added: Added new API function inside DynamicResolutionHandler and new settings in GlobalDynamicResolutionSettings to control low res transparency thresholds. This should help visuals when the screen percentage is too low.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added a dialog box when you import a Material that has a diffusion profile to add the diffusion profile to global settings.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added a slider that controls how much the volumetric clouds erosion value affects the ambient occlusion term.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added info box when low resolution transparency is selected, but its not enabled in the HDRP settings. This will help new users find the correct knob in the HDRP Asset.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added slides to control the shape noise offset.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added support for internal plugin materials and HDSubTarget with their versioning system.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added support for the camera bridge in the graphics compositor
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added the receiver motion rejection toggle to RTGI (1330168)
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added three animation curves to control the density, erosion, and ambient occlusion in the custom submode of the simple controls.
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added two toggles to control occluder rejection and receiver rejection for the ray traced ambient occlusion (1330168)
    
*   HDRP: Added: Added ValidateMaterial callbacks to ShaderGUI.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Added custom interpolator documentation
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Added information about selecting and unselecting items to the Blackboard article.
    
*   Shadergraph: Added: Added selection highlight and picking shader passes for URP target.
    
*   Shaders: Added: Added a missing API to check shader compilation warnings.  
    Added a missing API to get information about individual shaders. ([1340374](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-api-to-determine-if-a-shader-has-warnings))
    
*   URP: Added: Added GetUniversalAdditionalLightData, a method that returns the additional data component for a given light or create one if it doesn't exist yet.
    
*   URP: Added: Added Lights 2D to the Light Explorer window.
    
*   URP: Added: Added Motion Vector render pass for URP.
    
*   URP: Added: Added support for default sprite mask shaders for the 2D Renderer in URP.
    
*   URP: Added: VFX: Fix light cookies integration.
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: Provide explicit access to spawnCount in graph
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: Structured Graphics Buffer support as exposed type
    
*   VFX Graph: Added: Support of direct link event to initialize context (which support several event within the same frame)
    

#### Improvements

*   The Package Manager’s global cache root folder, which is used to store downloaded packages, can now be configured using the `UPM_CACHE_ROOT` environment variable or the `cacheRoot` key in the user configuration file

#### Changes

*   2D: Replace usage of Triangle.Net with in house tessellation solution.
    
*   Android: Allow Android Player to use Vulkan on GPUs that are currently unknown to Unity on Android 11 or newer.
    
*   Graphics: LensFlare (SRP) can be now disabled per element
    
*   Graphics: LensFlare (SRP) tooltips now refer to meters.
    
*   Graphics: LensFlare Element editor now have Thumbnail preview
    
*   Graphics: Serialize the Probe Volume asset as binary to improve footprint on disk and loading speed.
    
*   Graphics: Update icon for IES, LightAnchor and LensFlare
    
*   HDRP: Changed light reset to preserve type.
    
*   HDRP: Changed the storage format of volumetric clouds presets for easier editing.
    
*   HDRP: Display an info box and disable MSAA asset entry when ray tracing is enabled.
    
*   HDRP: Ignore hybrid duplicated reflection probes during light baking.
    
*   HDRP: Improved the fly through ghosting artifacts in the volumetric clouds.
    
*   HDRP: Increased the minimal density of the volumetric clouds.
    
*   HDRP: Make LitTessellation and LayeredLitTessellation fallback on Lit and LayeredLit respectively in DXR.
    
*   HDRP: Reduced the maximum distance per ray step of volumetric clouds.
    
*   HDRP: Removed redundant Show Inactive Objects and Isolate Selection checkboxes from the Emissive Materials tab of the Light Explorer
    
*   HDRP: Renaming Decal Projector to HDRP Decal Projector.
    
*   HDRP: The HDRP Render Graph now uses the new RendererList API for rendering and (optional) pass culling.
    
*   HDRP: Updated the recursive rendering documentation
    
*   Package: Updated Code Coverage package to v1.0.1. This version includes improvements and fixes.
    
*   Scene/Game View: Remove Component Tools Overlay, these tools are now available in the regular Tools Overlay.
    
*   Shadergraph: Adjusted Blackboard article to clarify multi-select functionality
    
*   URP: 2D Lights now inherit from Light2DBase.
    
*   URP: When MSAA is enabled and a depth texture is required, the opaque pass depth will be copied instead of scheduling a depth prepass.
    

#### Fixes

*   2D: Fixed crash when disabling Sprite Skin when multithreaded rendering is enabled. ([1296355](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-player-crashes-during-animation-unitygfxdeviceworker-unityframeworkvoid-transformverticesinnerloop))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   2D: Fixed Sprite Resolver component not updated when new categories/labels are added into Sprite Library asset. ([1321069](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-animation-sprite-resolver-component-not-updated-when-new-categories-slash-labels-are-added-into-sprite-library-asset))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Graphics: Fix realtime GI when using OpenGL ([1339133](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-enlighten-regression-where-not-all-surfaces-are-contributing-to-the-gi-on-mobiles))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a19._
    
*   Graphics: Fixed a large, visible stretch ratio in a LensFlare Image thumbnail.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed cropped thumbnail for Image with non-uniform scale and rotation
    
*   Graphics: Fixed IES Importer related to new API on core.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Undo from script refreshing thumbnail.
    
*   Graphics: Graphics: Fixing DLSS vulkan black pixels / frame corruption of first frame. (1335735)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed a compilation issue for AxF carpaints on Vulkan
    
*   HDRP: Fixed a divide-by-zero warning for anisotropic shaders (Fabric, Lit).
    
*   HDRP: Fixed a lack of syncronization between the camera and the planar camera for volumetric cloud animation data.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed a memory leak related to not disposing of the RTAS at the end HDRP's lifecycle.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an error when deleting the 3D Texture mask of a local volumetric fog volume (1339330)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an incompatibility between MSAA and Volumetric Clouds.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue with normal management for recursive rendering (1324082)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed an issue with TAA causing objects not to render at extremely high far flip plane values.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed AxF debug output in certain configurations ([1333780](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-compilation-error-when-generating-normal-material-aov-of-a-model-using-axf-shader))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed contact shadow debug views not displaying correctly upon resizing of view.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed crash on SubSurfaceScattering Editor when the selected pipeline is not HDRP
    
*   HDRP: Fixed cropping issue with the compositor camera bridge (1340549)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed diffusion profile breaking after upgrading HDRP ([1337892](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-diffusion-profile-materials-get-corrupted-on-upgrade))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed error with motion blur and small render targets.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed for discrepancies in intensity and saturation between screen space refraction and probe refraction.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed for wrong cached area light initialization.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed HDRP's ShaderGraphVersion migration management which was broken.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed incorrect RTHandle scale in DoF when TAA is enabled.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed invalid pass index 1 in DrawProcedural error.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with hierarchy object filtering.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed issue with on-demand directional shadow maps looking broken when a reflection probe is updated at the same time.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed missing API documentation for LTC area light code.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed overdraw in custom pass utils blur and Copy functions ([1333648](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-custom-pass-utils-function-blit-two-full-screen-triangles-instead-of-one))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed path traced transparent unlit material ([1335500](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-unlit-transparent-material-shows-multiple-reflection-of-the-same-gameobject-and-itself-when-path-tracing-is-enabled))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed ray tracing with XR and camera relative rendering ([1336608](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-openxr-hdrp-dxr-left-eyes-shadows-are-opaque-black-depending-on-the-angle-of-view-when-raytracing-is-enabled))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed reflection probes being injected into the ray tracing light cluster even if not baked ([1329083](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-gfxdeviced3d12base-drawbufferscommon-when-switching-between-scenes))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed some aliasing ussues with the volumetric clouds.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed some depth comparison instabilities with volumetric clouds.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed support of Distortion with MSAA
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the double sided option moving when toggling it in the material UI (1328877)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the fallback to custom went changing a quality settings not workings properly (1338657)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed the ray traced sub subsurface scattering debug mode not displaying only the RTSSS Data (1332904)
    
*   HDRP: Fixed undo on light anchor.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed unexpected rendering of 2D cookies when switching from Spot to Point light type ([1333947](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-non-descriptive-errors-and-unexpected-rendering-when-unsupported-texture-type-is-assigned-as-a-cookie))
    
*   HDRP: Fixed VfX lit particle AOV output color space.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed volumetric fog in planar reflections.
    
*   HDRP: Fixed white flash when camera is reset and SSR Accumulation mode is on.
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed an issue where removing a project dependency using `PackageManager.Client.Remove` would throw an error when the project manifest has no dependencies property. ([1324067](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unityeditor-dot-packagemanager-dot-client-dot-remove-returns-confusing-error-when-project-manifest-does-not-have-a-dependencies-property))
    
*   Package Manager: Removed function call traces from `upm.log` file. ([1331947](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/upm-dot-log-shows-minified-function-names-at-debug-logging-level))  
    _First seen in 2021.2.0a7._
    
*   Physics: Fix a single issue where it's impossible to edit either an EdgeCollider2D or PolygonCollider2D when the Transform Scale Z is zero. ([1339608](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-collider-cant-be-edited-when-it-is-inside-the-nested-gameobject))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Profiler: Fixed selection of RestoreManagedReferences sample and its children in Profiler Window ([1330206](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentexception-is-thrown-when-selecting-restoremanagedreferences-in-the-profiler))
    
*   Scene/Game View: Fixed custom tool button incorrectly showing a built-in tool in certain cases where EditorToolContext is active. (1339433)
    
*   Scripting: Fix when including UIElements or Ui Builder packages, could lead to errors when changing debug/release mode.  
    The error could also appear if changing a setting that would get the packages recompiled. ([1314920](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-an-error-is-thrown-in-console-window-when-switching-editors-code-optimization-mode))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a bug in ShaderGraph where sticky notes couldn't be copied and pasted ([1221042](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-sticky-notes-can-not-be-copied-and-pasted))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a Shader Graph issue where property auto generated reference names were not consistent across all property types ([1336937](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/not-all-shader-graph-auto-generated-property-reference-names-start-with-a-underscore))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a ShaderGraph issue where keyword properties could get stuck highlighted when deleted ([1333738](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-keyword-properties-are-stuck-highlighted-when-a-keyword-node-is-selected-and-then-deleted))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a ShaderGraph issue where resize handles on blackboard and graph inspector were too small ([1329247](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-resize-bounds-for-blackboard-and-graph-inspector-are-too-small))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a ShaderGraph issue where unused blocks get removed on edge replacement ([1334341](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/node-in-the-block-node-is-deleted-when-reconnecting-a-node-to-it-while-automatically-add-or-remove-blocks-is-enabled))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed a warning in ShaderGraph about BuiltIn Shader Library assembly having no scripts.
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where nested subgraphs with identical SamplerState property settings could cause compile failures (1336089)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where SamplerState properties could not be renamed after creation (1336126)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed issue with ShaderGraph custom interpolator node dependency ordering ([1332553](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-user-is-allowed-to-plug-route-into-both-vertex-and-fragment-stages-combining-this-with-custom-interpolator-fails))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed issues with double prompts for "do you want to save" when closing Shader Graph windows ([1316104](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-maximizing-a-tab-using-the-3-dots-menu-throws-do-you-want-to-save-menu-for-shadergraph))
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed loading all materials from project when saving a ShaderGraph.
    
*   Shadergraph: Fixed SubGraph SamplerState property defaults not being respected (1336119)  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._
    
*   Shaders: It is now possible to determine which keywords are disabled in a given ShaderKeywordSet by using ShaderUtil.GetPassKeywords ([1338833](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/not-possible-to-determine-if-a-keyword-is-disabled-in-a-variant-used-for-stripping))
    
*   URP: Fixed a case where camera dimension can be zero. ([1321168](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-attempting-to-get-camera-relative-temporary-rendertexture-is-thrown-when-tweening-the-viewport-rect-values-of-a-camera))
    
*   URP: Fixed an issue where shadow artefacts appeared between cascades on Terrain Detail objects.
    
*   URP: Fixed CopyDepthPass incorrectly always enqueued when deferred rendering mode was enabled when it should depends on the pipeline asset settings.
    
*   URP: Fixed gizmos no longer allocate memory in game view. (1328852)
    
*   URP: Fixed issue where it will clear camera color if post processing is happening on XR (1324451)
    
*   URP: Fixed ordering of subshaders in the Unlit Shader Graph, such that shader target 4.5 takes priority over 2.0. ([1328636](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-urp-unlit-shadergraph-is-broken-in-hybrid-renderer-v2))
    
*   URP: Fixed pixel perfect camera rect not being correctly initialized. ([1312646](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pixel-perfect-camera-height-is-updated-on-the-third-frame))
    
*   URP: Fixed post processing to be enabled by default in the renderer when creating URP asset option. ([1333461](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/post-processing-is-disabled-by-default-in-the-forward-renderer-when-creating-a-new-urp-asset))
    
*   URP: Fixed renderer creation in playmode to have its property reloaded. (1333463)
    
*   URP: Fixed renderer post processing option to work with asset selector re-assing. ([1319454](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-universal-renderer-post-processing-doesnt-enable-when-postprocessdata-reassigned-from-the-asset-selector-window))
    
*   URP: Fixed shaderGraph shaders to render into correct depthNormals passes when deferred rendering mode and SSAO are enabled.
    
*   VFX Graph: Enabled an optimization for motion vectors, storing projected positions for vertices instead of the transform matrix
    
*   VFX Graph: Fix incorrect buffer type for strips
    
*   VFX Graph: Fix unexpected Spawn context execution ordering
    
*   Windows: The stack tracing code now works even when excessively long mono method signatures are in the callstack (1342150)
    
*   XR: Fixed an issue where custom XR packages would not get registered when running the Unity Editor using the -batchmode argument ([1334517](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-sdk-openvr-xr-plug-in-provider-is-not-enabled-when-project-is-ran-in-batch-mode))  
    _This has already been backported to older releases and will not be mentioned in final notes._