### Known Issues in 6000.0.22f1

- Asset - Database: Crash on MonoBehaviour::Transfer<GenerateTypeTreeTransfer> when the XR Interaction Toolkit Sample Assets are updated
    ([UUM-76934](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-monobehaviour-transfer-when-the-xr-interaction-toolkit-sample-assets-are-updated))

- Environment Effects: A pink line of the size of the Tree is drawn in the Hierarchy when opening any dropdown in the Inspector
    ([UUM-82801](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-pink-line-of-the-size-of-the-tree-is-drawn-in-the-hierarchy-when-opening-any-dropdown-in-the-inspector))

- IAP: [Android] Build fails with Error "A failure occurred while executing com.android.build.gradle.internal.tasks.CheckDuplicatesRunnable" when using In-App Purchasing and Facebook SDK
    ([UUM-76723](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-build-fails-when-using-in-app-purchasing-and-facebook-sdk))

- Input: Crash on InputDeviceIOCTL when closing Unity editor
    ([UUM-10774](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-inputdeviceioctl-when-closing-unity-editor))

- Shader System: Crash when selecting a certain material
    ([UUM-73507](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-selecting-a-certain-material))

- Shader System: Shader cache is not used when building the Player repeatedly
    ([UUM-75264](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-cache-is-not-used-when-building-the-player-repeatedly))

- Shader System: Shaders are always recompiled when the Editor is opened
    ([UUM-75262](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-are-always-recompiled-when-the-editor-is-opened))

- Vulkan: [Android] Particles not rendered in the Player on some Android devices with Android 14
    ([UUM-68080](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-particles-not-rendered-in-the-player-on-some-android-devices-with-android-14))



### 6000.0.22f1 Release Notes

#### Improvements

- Documentation: Updated documentation on execution order for OnDisable and OnDestroy.

- Graphics: Improved SRPs default scene templates.

- Physics: Improved the performance of setting position and rotation to colliders that belong to a Rigidbody or ArticulationBody component.

- Profiler: Optimized a profiler allocator to have better performance when profiling a game with many jobs.
    (UUM-76765)

- Universal RP: Enabled foveated rendering for UberPost pass when it is the last pass and FinalPostBlit pass.
    (GFXFOUND-753)

- URP: Improved the depth copy scheduling in render graph path to allow copying after skybox rendering to improve pass merging.
    (UUM-82276)



#### API Changes

- Editor: Added: a public method to refresh the visual content of the collapsed OverlayPopup.
    (STO-3412)

- Editor: Added: an api in CloudProjectSettings to get the Services Gateway token

- iOS: Added: iPhone 16 device generation enums and screen cutouts.



#### Changes

- Package Manager: The package installation folder names have been changed from `<packageName>` to `<packageName>@<fingerprint>.substring(0,12)` in the `Library/PackageCache` folder to prevent locking issues.

- Physics: Renamed the profiler marker "Dynamic WheelCollider.Create" to "WheelCollider.Create" in order to clarify where the marker is coming from.



#### Fixes

- 2D: Added Color preference for Tile Palette background in Edit mode.
    (UUM-82303)

- 2D: Fixed an issue where Render Graph errors where thrown when resizing the SceneView to 0 height or width.
    ([UUM-79884](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendertexture-dot-create-failed-with-rendergraph-when-resizing-the-scene-view-to-the-minimum))

- 2D: Fixed uv precision issue on iOS devices.
    (UUM-82513)

- Android: Moved the game_view_content_description resource from string.xml in launcher module to unityLibrary module, since game_view_content_description is used by unityLibrary, not the launcher module.

- Android: Updated GameActivity to fix an issue with the delete key on soft keyboard.
    (UUM-70772)

- Asset Import: Ignored UNITY_GIVE_CHANCE_TO_ATTACH_DEBUGGER for asset import process.
    (UUM-80000)

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed a crash that occurred when moving scripts which saved their state in OnPostprocessAllAssets.
    ([UUM-75114](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mono-custom-attrs-from-class-when-moving-a-certain-folder))

- Audio: Fixed a fatal error "Callback registration failed. Increase kMaxCallback." when playing more than 128 audio sources with AudioRandomContainers simultaneously.
    ([UUM-82788](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fatal-error-callback-registration-failed-increase-kmaxcallback-dot-when-playing-multiple-random-audio-sources-rapidly))

- Audio: Reverted change to buffering code in OpenSL FMOD driver.
    ([UUM-76489](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crashes-in-fmod-after-upgrading-from-2022-dot-3-24-to-2022-dot-3-36))

- Build Pipeline: Fixed an issue so the Build Profiles Window now updates the active build target if a user script changes the active build target while it is open.
    (UUM-76173)

- Editor: Added a cancelable progress bar for the preliminary steps of an APV bake.
    (UUM-73316)

- Editor: Added a delete build profile dialog when deleting non-active profiles in the build profile window.
    (UUM-79932)

- Editor: Build Profile Scene List is opt-in.

- Editor: Ensured that when opening from Project browser, the search window query is correctly populated.
    ([UUM-79369](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-second-search-window-opens-when-one-is-already-opened-from-the-project-window-and-the-search-field-is-populated-with-the-project-search-pill-string))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that would occur in Linux when opening recent scenes from the File menu.
    ([UUM-82381](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-on-menucontroller-executemenuitem-when-selecting-recent-scene))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that would occurs when `-readonly` and `-activeBuildProfile <path>` command line arguments are passed.
    (UUM-82880)

- Editor: Fixed an Editor crash that would occur with some corrupted custom SRP.
    ([UUM-79332](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-on-scriptablebatchrenderer-generatebuiltincbuffer-when-adding-perobjectdata-dot-reflectionprobes))

- Editor: Fixed an expensive call to FindObjectsOfTypeAll that would cause the Inspector to be slow in volume inspector UI.
    (UUM-81551)

- Editor: Fixed an issue in HDRP where multi-selected lights with different ranges had their range overridden.
    ([UUM-79555](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-range-of-selected-spot-lights-get-reset-when-altering-the-radius-or-the-inner-slash-outer-spot-angle))

- Editor: Fixed an issue so Linux Editor no longer crashes when attempting to drag from the Project window to the Scene View.
    ([UUM-79812](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-on-pptr-operator-runtimeanimatorcontroller-star-const-when-saving-a-new-animation-file))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the texture's alpha appears as opaque white when the texture format is set to BC7.
    ([UUM-77153](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-importer-alpha-swizzle-does-not-work-when-textures-are-originally-opaque))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where visionOS was listed in Build Profiles when visionOS module was not installed.
    (UUM-66160)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with Game view focus.
    (UUM-82932)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with macOS shortcuts not working if a graph view "Create Node" window with search box was closed.
    (UUM-58449)

- Editor: Fixed an uninitialized variable in rendering that under certain conditions cause 'invalid aabb' to be spammed to the log.
    (UUM-82934)

- Editor: Fixed rendering issues with XRSettings.RenderViewportScale when using OpenXR.
    ([UUM-19440](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-openxr-xrsettings-dot-renderviewportscale-with-urp-give-incorrect-results-when-the-value-is-less-than-1))

- Editor: Fixed shader warning errors that would occur when building a player.
    ([UUM-75179](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-multiple-shader-warnings-are-thown-in-the-console-after-building-water-samples-scenes))

- Editor: Fixed splash screen preview not working sometimes.
    ([UUM-74177](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/splash-screen-logos-are-not-rendered-when-there-is-a-gameobject-with-the-uidocument-component-in-the-scene-and-this-component-is-disabled))

- Editor: Fixed SRP Batcher supports Integer type "stencil ref".
    ([UUM-79305](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-the-type-of-the-stencil-ref-property-in-the-shader-is-an-integer-srp-batching-is-not-broken-even-if-the-stencil-ref-values-differ))

- Editor: Removed default timeout in searchsession.
    ([UUM-81554](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/infinite-loading-slash-freezing-in-memory-profiler-when-trying-to-view-object-details-from-the-unity-object-tab))

- Editor: Resolved a ccrash in the Unity Editor when attempting to update the number of Vulkan swapchain images.
    ([UUM-60016](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-editor-crash-when-changing-vulkan-number-of-swapchain-buffers))

- GI: Fixed an issue where GPU Lightmapper produced incorrect validity when using Cutout transmission.
    (UUM-77831)

- GI: Fixed seams across cell boundaries in Adaptive Probe Volumes.
    (UUM-78721)

- Graphics: Changed RenderPassSetup for memoryless surface to match GraphicsHelpers::ValidateMemoryless.

- Graphics: Cleared materialPropertyBlocks after each Blit to avoid interference between blits.
    (UUM-29958)

- Graphics: Fixed an issue in which raw Image that uses a Material with a custom Shader is invisible in Canvas when "Screen Space - Overlay" is set and the Player is in "Windowed" mode.
    ([UUM-73042](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raw-image-that-uses-a-material-with-a-custom-shader-is-invisible-in-canvas-when-screen-space-overlay-is-set-and-the-player-is-in-windowed-mode))

- Graphics: Prevent scheduling jobs from ScheduleGeometryJobs already running in split jobs.
    (UUM-32985)

- Graphics: The setting RenderTextureDescriptor.graphicsFormat had unexpected and unwanted side effects to the depthStencilFormat. Setting RenderTextureDescriptor graphicsFormat, dephtStencilFormat and shadowSamplingMode properties are now order independent. These are the modern fields. The legacy properties depthBufferBits and colorFormat will set a combination of these modern fields. The use of these legacy APIs should not be combined with setting the modern fields directly, the order can change the results.
    (UUM-82319)

- HDRP: Fixed distortion in Unlit Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-79337](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/material-is-not-rendered-in-player-when-using-a-shader-with-distortion-enabled))

- HDRP: Fixed the artifact of non-physical DOF if it's used with TAA and dynamic resolution; The artifacts appear for a frame after the screen resolution changes.
    ([UUM-70751](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-renders-artifacts-when-cameras-component-post-anti-aliasing-is-set-to-taa-and-dynamic-resolutions-forced-screen-percentage-is-changed))

- HDRP: Fixed UI overflow and stencil based effects not working in HDRP.
    (UUM-63686)

- HDRP: Updated HDRP to use the new TextureDesc field format instead of colorFormat and depthBufferBits to avoid a performance regression and subtle issues.

- Kernel: Fixed a memory ordering bug which could have caused a crash or hang in the job system.
    (UUM-78983)

- Package Manager: Fixed an `EPERM` error that could occur on Windows during resolve when UPM tries to rename an existing package folder in the PackageCache to replace it with a new package.

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where 'Experimental Packages in Use' dropdown was still using the old experimental tag logic
    (UUM-81539)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where 'See other versions' button did not show up for packages from Unity Registry.
    (UUM-82567)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where the 'Experimental Package in Use' icon was missing tooltip.
    (UUM-81543)

- Physics: Fixed an issue with cloth self collision where setting and clearing self collision indices would cause simulation artifacts unless self collision distance was set to 0.0f prior to clearing. Now when clearing self collision indices distance/stiffness no longer play a role in the simulation of the cloth component.
    ([UUM-78851](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-self-collision-and-inter-collision-on-a-cloth-is-still-applied-when-the-self-collision-and-inter-collision-checkbox-is-un-ticked-and-the-self-collision-distance-is-non-zero))

- Physics: Fixed an issue with the Physics Debugger where attempting to visualize a character controller would assert and cause the shape's visualization to not be posed correctly.

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where the cursor could flicker when hovering input fields in the scene view.
    ([UUM-75504](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cursor-is-flickering-when-hovering-over-the-tile-brush-picks-overlays-search-text-field-in-scene-view))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed Orientation overlay styling.
    ([UUM-79216](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/orientation-overlays-drag-handle-has-no-padding-on-its-left-in-scene-view))

- Shadergraph: Addressed an issue where precision mismatch could result in an asset failing to import.
    ([UUM-74920](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidoperationexception-precision-mismatch-error-is-thrown-in-the-console-when-multiplying-two-half-precision-values-in-a-multiply-node-with-single-precision-in-shader-graph))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue that caused errors in the Feature Examples sample content for Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-75818](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-feature-examples-multiple-keynotfoundexception-and-other-errors-on-import))

- Shaders: Fixed an issue so HLSLcc will no longer warn about potentially exceeding the SSBO limits set in the specification when compiling compute shaders for OpenGL and OpenGL ES.
    ([UUM-75176](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tracerenderinglayermask-warning-is-thrown-when-creating-universal-2d-or-3d-templates))

- SpeedTree: Fixed a crash in SpeedTreeWindManager with certain prefab assets when play mode is engaged.
    ([UUM-79813](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-anonymous-namespace-preparetreesandwritewindparamsjobdata-execute-when-entering-play-mode-on-a-specific-project))

- SRP Core: Modified RTHandle allocators so they can now use GraphicsFormat to set the depthStencil format \(TextureDesc.format\). The allocators take a single format for either color or depth stencil to avoid incorrectly creating depth instead of color or vice versa.

- SRP Core: Modified TextureDesc so it can now use GraphicsFormat to set the depthStencil format \(TextureDesc.format\). The TextureDesc.depthBufferBits and TextureDesc.colorFormat fields are now properties that call GraphicsFormatUtilities functions for backwards compatibility. The descriptor now unambiguously describes a single resource, either color or depth. Therefore, TextureHandle clearly represents a single resource.

- Tests: Fixed an issue with `AsyncInstantiateObjectChildrenTransformValidationNoPositionRotationParent` instability by reducing floating point comparison precision.
    (UUM-72578)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed alignment of foldouts children in IMGUI.
    ([UUM-70643](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serialized-field-is-indented-too-much-in-the-inspector-when-customeditor-is-used))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where the slider value was incorrectly clamped when loaded from UXML.
    ([UUM-79734](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-slider-value-defaults-to-min-value-when-the-initial-value-is-set-in-the-uxml-file))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue with zero scale when using group transform.
    ([UUM-75219](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/specific-scroll-view-elements-are-not-rendered-on-the-ui-document))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed foldouts alignment when they are rendered in IMGUIContainers.
    ([UUM-35561](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/property-field-has-inconsistent-indents-when-its-called-with-editorgui-dot-propertyfield-function))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue in RenderGraph where an extra copy was made of the Main and Additional light shadow textures.
    (UUM-82264)

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue in URP Forward Plus lighting where extra tiles were being incorrectly masked to be lit by spot lights that did not in fact affect them.
    (UUM-82299)

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where shadows were rendering incorrectly when light sources were placed near shadow casting objects.
    ([UUM-82417](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-shadows-are-not-rendered-when-the-light-source-is-placed-near-the-sprite))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue with the depthStencil format for the `_CameraDepthAttachment` and the `_CameraDepthTexture` resource so they are now correctly set by the format settings on the Renderer asset.
    (UUM-79752)

- Universal RP: Fixed SpeedTree8 ShaderLab shader issue.
    (UUM-77906)

- Universal RP: Fixed the use of a potentially uninitialized variable warning in Core2D issue.
    ([UUM-81533](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-warnings-sprite-unlit-default-are-thrown-after-building-2d-platrformer-microgame-template))

- URP: Fixed an issue with a missing depth prepass in deferred render graph path.
    (UUM-82275)

- URP: Fixed camera stacking rendering to system backbuffer with Render Graph on iOS/macOS.
    ([UUM-68284](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendergraph-camerastacking-passes-are-failing-when-camerastacking-and-rg-are-enabled))

- URP: Fixed render graph global textures persisting after graph execution.
    (UUM-74470)

- URP: Modified the scheduling of a motion vector pass in render graph path in order to ensure motion and depth data are always available together.
    (UUM-82279)

- VFX Graph: Fixed a crash that would uccur during the update of a Visual Effect when deleting a used Texture.
    (UUM-82240)

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue where strip tangent was not computed correctly when using Shader Graph output.
    (UUM-82413)

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue where Tooltips were not displaying.
    ([UUM-82338](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-tooltips-are-not-shown-anymore))

- VFX Graph: Fixed capacity field in the Particle System Info panel not being refreshed when modifying system capacity.
    ([UUM-74365](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-capacity-field-in-the-particle-system-info-is-not-updated-when-changing-the-visual-effects-graph-is-not-saved))

- VFX Graph: Fixed overdraw debug mode of unlit particles in URP.
    ([UUM-76812](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/output-particles-have-wrong-overdraw-value-when-they-are-unlit-quad-or-urp-lit-mesh))

- VFX Graph: Fixed two different HLSL parsing issues with VFX Graph custom HLSL.
    ([UUM-79389](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-some-hlsl-code-formatting-breaks-attribute-usage-detection))

- VisionOS: Fixed the selection of incorrect scheme for visionOS Xcode projects when using Build And Run or running Player tests in Test Runner.

- VisionOS: Removed delayed-start code path used in visionOS development and simulator builds. This delay was introduced to fix potential crashes when using the `Wait For Managed Debugger` build setting, but caused issues with input in visionOS XR builds. Prior to this fix, input in visionOS XR development and simulator builds would only update intermittently, appearing like "lag" or as if running at a very low frame rate.

- WebGL: Fixed a problem in Web platform Build and Run feature when both Native C/C++ multithreading and Autoconnect Profiler were enabled.
    ([UUM-53120](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-message-header-is-corrupted-and-for-security-reasons-connection-will-be-terminated-is-thrown-when-autoconnect-profiler-and-threadssupport-are-enabled))

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fixed an issue with mismatched bind group layouts when sampling depth textures.




#### Package changes in 6000.0.22f1

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.burst: [1.8.17](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.burst@1.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.8.18](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.burst@1.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers: [2.1.10](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.1.11](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.oculus: [4.2.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@4.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@4.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.openxr: [1.12.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.12.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.apis: [1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.apis@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.apis@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.microsoft.gdk: [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.2.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.microsoft.gdk.tools: [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk.tools@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.2.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk.tools@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)