### Known Issues in 6000.1.0a5

- Asset - Database: Crash on MonoBehaviour::Transfer<GenerateTypeTreeTransfer> when the XR Interaction Toolkit Sample Assets are updated
    ([UUM-76934](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-monobehaviour-transfer-when-the-xr-interaction-toolkit-sample-assets-are-updated))

- Asset Pipeline: Handle corrupted library crash to allow the users to open their project
    ([UUM-14959](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-getassetcachedinfov2-when-opening-a-project))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a7.*

- DirectX12: Allocated graphics memory does not get released when the Editor is out of focus while using D3D12 graphics API
    ([UUM-86354](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/allocated-graphics-memory-does-not-get-released-when-the-editor-is-out-of-focus-while-using-d3d12-graphics-api))

- DirectX12: The Camera does not render correctly when the Camera.Rect() is changed and HDR is enabled and DX12 graphics API is selected
    ([UUM-86917](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-camera-does-not-render-correctly-when-the-camera-dot-rect-is-changed-and-hdr-is-enabled-and-dx12-graphics-api-is-selected))

- Editor: Fixed the key duplication for Debug Data in the Render Graph Viewer
    ([UUM-86392](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentexception-and-invalidoperationexception-are-constantly-logged-and-game-view-breaks-when-opening-the-rendergraph-viewer))<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a3.*    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a6.*

- Kernel: Fixed a hang that would occur when accessing transforms immediately after scheduling a transform job with dependencies.
    ([UUM-86782](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-freezes-when-schedulereadonly-of-ijobparallelfortransform-with-dependency-is-used))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a6.*

- Mono: [Silicon] Crash on Bytenado.Chatterbox:.ctor when opening a project after creating a partial class of a Dictionary<string,  int> containing about 125k entries
    ([UUM-87488](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/silicon-crash-on-bytenado-dot-chatterbox-dot-ctor-when-opening-a-project-after-creating-a-partial-class-of-a-dictionary-string-int-containing-about-125k-entries))

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where update available filter doesn't refresh list properly sometimes
    (UUM-85700)    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a6.*

- Scene Management: [MacOS] Crash on [NSApplication endModalSession:] when saving while Play Mode is loading
    ([UUM-87930](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-crash-on-nsapplication-endmodalsession-when-saving-while-play-mode-is-loading))

- 



### New 6000.1.0a5 Entries since 6000.1.0a4

#### Features

- 2D: Added the *Slice on Import* option to Slice settings to automatically re-slice Textures when Textures are reimported.

- 2D: Store Slice settings for Textures of type Sprite in TextureImporter.

- Graphics: Added a conversion utility to convert Android Player Settings fields "Vulkan Device Allow List" and "Vulkan Device Deny List" to a "Vulkan Device Filter Lists" asset.

- Graphics: Added a new "Vulkan Device Filter Lists" asset type. Use this asset to create filters for Android Devices and to determine whether Vulkan can be enabled on the device and, if so, what the preferred graphics jobs mode would be for that device enabling runtime graphics jobs mode selection.



#### Improvements

- IL2CPP: Do not emit incremental GC write barriers for writes to function pointer fields

- IL2CPP: mdb symbol files will no longer be read during il2cpp player builds.



#### API Changes

- Graphics: Obsoleted: Marked "UnityEditor.AndroidDeviceFilterData" obsolete.



#### Changes

- Editor: Now use less-verbose version strings by default on official branches.
    ([UUM-85505](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/about-unity-window-shows-extended-version-numbers-including-staging-tag))

- Graphics: The Android Player Settings fields "Vulkan Device Allow List" and "Vulkan Device Deny List" have been made Obsolete. These are replaced by the "Vulkan Device Filter" Android Player Settings field and "Vulkan Device Filter Lists" asset type.



#### Fixes

- Accessibility: Fixed Accessibility Hierarchy Viewer empty field height issue.
    (UUM-77138)

- Accessibility: Fixed Android TalkBack touch to focus disabled nodes issue.
    (UUM-77508)

- Animation: Fixed an issue where calls to AnimationUtility.GetEditorCurve were leaking memory in c\#.
    (UUM-87015)

- Editor: Fixed a background color for focused assets in Project window.
    ([UUM-86167](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-selector-disappears-in-the-project-window-when-selecting-anything-in-the-inspector-window))

- Editor: Fixed a mouse icons in the Shortcut Helper Bar issue.

- Editor: Fixed an assertion asserts being spammed in the console when Maximum Reflection Probe count was higher than 64 \(HDRP\).
    ([UUM-86779](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-assertion-printed-when-maximum-reflection-probe-count-is-higher-than-64-due-to-k-maxcubereflectionsonscreen-when-raytracing-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where horizontal scrolling would not work when using a trackpad gesture.
    ([UUM-84867](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-explorer-window-cant-be-scrolled-horizontally-by-using-a-trackpad-gesture-when-there-is-no-vertical-scrollbar))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Progress Bar was misreporting the cause of Editor hangs in some cases.
    (UUM-79678)

- Editor: Fixed Editor building errors in water samples issue.
    ([UUM-86548](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-build-fails-and-multiple-errors-are-thrown-when-building-hdrp-project-with-water-samples))<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a3.*

- Editor: Fixed EditorApplication.isFocused returning false in Play mode.
    ([UUM-83091](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorapplication-dot-isfocused-returns-false-when-entering-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed Inter not being created at runtime issue.
    ([UUM-79518](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-is-not-visible-when-displayed-in-runtime))

- Editor: The Linux editor will now reduce CPU usage when moved to the background, respecting the "Interaction Mode" setting.
    ([UUM-79514](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-high-cpu-usage-when-editor-interaction-mode-is-set-to-no-throttling))

- Graphics: Fixed a compile error when placing an old URP config package in a Unity project.
    (UUM-86309)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a3.*

- HDRP: Fixed a shader error when using water excluder with entities.
    ([UUM-86522](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-exclusion-shader-doesnt-work-with-brg))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue by adding clamp to HairAngleWorld to prevent nan from FastASin.
    ([UUM-72279](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-scene-view-flickers-when-moving-around-if-there-are-visible-hair-shaders))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where DebugDisplay Camera list grew beyond number of active cameras, every time a camera was registered or unregistered.
    (UUM-86686)

- HDRP: Fixed to avoid calling the Cleanup method twice so the celestial data remains.
    ([UUM-83616](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-empty-template-starts-with-incorrect-physically-based-sky-ground))

- IL2CPP: Fixed "DllNotFoundException: Unable to load DLL 'kernel32.dll'" error on Universal Windows Platform when using HttpClient.
    ([UUM-79112](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dllnotfoundexception-unable-to-load-dll-kernel32-dot-dll-is-thrown-when-using-httpclient-on-hololens-2))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a memory corruption on a constrained call on an integral pointer type in unsafe generic code.

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue by removing a potential 1000ms delay during shutdown.

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue where Il2CppEagerStaticClassConstructionAttribute did not have defined behavior which resulted in an out of order initialization on nested static constructors.
    ([UUM-84202](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-dot-mathematics-dot-affinetransform-dot-identity-returns-a-zero-filled-value-when-a-project-is-built-with-an-il2cpp-background))

- IL2CPP: Fixed issue with the wrong calling convention being used on function pointers when two function pointers with the same signature only differed by calling convention.

- iOS: Fixed an issue to make On Demand Resources variant settings customizable in player settings of a custom build profile.
    (UUM-85569)

- iOS: Fixed plugin framework folders showing up red in exported iOS Xcode project.
    (UUM-84687)

- Linux: Fixed new input touch timestamps
    (UUM-79893)

- Mono: Fixed a crash for MONO_TYPE_FNPTR cases in mono_field_get_value_object_checked.
    ([UUM-79025](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-raiseexception-when-using-the-default-equals-object-implementation-in-a-value-type-containing-a-function-pointer))

- Mono: Fixed a possible out-of-bounds memory write when inlining code with code coverage enabled.
    (UUM-83778)

- Mono: Fixed a potential read beyond the end of a buffer on MacOS when iterating directories.
    (UUM-83824)

- Mono: Fixed an exception being thrown due to a race condition within Encoding.GetEncoding.
    (UUM-82959)

- Mono: Fixed JIT trampoline memory leak with Timers and Sockets.
    ([UUM-76306](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-when-using-net-sockets))

- Mono: Fixeda  rare NullReferenceException during a constrained call on a value type.
    ([UUM-79115](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-mono-release-mode-jit-causes-an-error-when-using-a-memorymappedfile))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed EditorTools icon not showing when importing a new package.
    (UUM-86481)

- Serialization: Fixed a crash on ReadAndActivateObjectThreaded when reimporting a missing PSB file prefab.
    ([UUM-59093](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-readandactivateobjectthreaded-when-reimporting-a-missing-psb-file-prefab))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed a flush alignment not being exact in TMP issue.
    ([UUM-85001](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textmeshpro-text-is-misaligned-when-it-should-align-in-the-flush-style))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed an issue where tint would affect every emoji until a new sprite tag would be used.
    ([UUM-76467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textmeshpro-emojis-inherit-tint-values-when-placed-after-a-tag))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed popup fields not handling pointer up events.
    ([UUM-85620](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selection-of-multi-select-listview-is-changed-when-interacting-with-child-element-in-an-editorwindow))

- Universal RP: Fixed a depth texture format used for URP 2D RenderPass with Android devices issue.
    (UUM-86791)

- URP: Fixed the CameraDepthAttachment turning black for DX11.
    ([UUM-64316](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-with-cameradepthattachment-is-not-rendered-when-using-dx11-graphics-api))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue subgraph blocks did not accept correct types of block based on their suitable context.
    ([UUM-83521](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-subgraph-nesting-isnt-functionnal))

- Video: Fixed an issue where video contained artifacts when played in the Video Preview section in the Inspector Window.
    ([UUM-83600](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-contains-artifacts-when-played-in-the-video-preview-section-in-the-inspector-window))

- VisionOS: Fixed an issue where the plugin framework folders were showing up red in exported VisionOS Xcode project.
    (UUM-84687)

- WebGL: Fixed video playing issue in WebGL when another video was still loading in Firefox.
    ([UUM-79406](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/av1-videos-do-not-play-in-webgl-when-another-video-is-still-loading-and-firefox-browser-is-used))




#### New 6000.1.0a5 Package Changes since 6000.1.0a4

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.cinemachine: [2.10.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.10.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.visualscripting: [1.9.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualscripting@1.9//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.9.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualscripting@1.9//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.openxr: [1.13.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.13.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

### Preview of Final 6000.1.0a5 Release Notes

#### Features

- 2D: Added an option to disable field editing in Sprite Editor to prevent accidental edit.

- 2D: Added the *Slice on Import* option to Slice settings to automatically re-slice Textures when Textures are reimported.

- 2D: Store Slice settings for Textures of type Sprite in TextureImporter.

- Editor: Added graphics settings overrides to build profiles.

- Editor: Added support for a quality levels override in build profiles.

- Editor: Added support for Facebook Instant Games.

- Graphics: Added a conversion utility to convert Android Player Settings fields "Vulkan Device Allow List" and "Vulkan Device Deny List" to a "Vulkan Device Filter Lists" asset.

- Graphics: Added a new "Vulkan Device Filter Lists" asset type. Use this asset to create filters for Android Devices and to determine whether Vulkan can be enabled on the device and, if so, what the preferred graphics jobs mode would be for that device enabling runtime graphics jobs mode selection.

- Graphics: Added the new C\# API `RayTracingAccelerationStructure.RemoveInstances`, which removes ray tracing instances from an acceleration structure based on their layer or ray tracing mode.

- Graphics: Introduce a new C\# `API RayTracingAccelerationStructure.AddInstancesIndirect` to specify ray tracing instance transformation matrices using a GraphicsBuffer.

- SRP Core: Added a render graph debug setting that allows users to temporarily disable pass merging to isolate issues or investigate performance changes.

- UI Toolkit: Improved the workflow for authoring variables in the UI Builder.

- WebGL: WebGPU is now officially available as one of the graphics APIs for the Web Player.

- XR: The Meta Quest Platform is now available in the Build Profiles window.



#### Improvements

- Editor: Added an array slice and mipmap info to the render graph debugger.

- Editor: Added extra validation to the render graph texture descriptor to avoid silently failing when a user tried to create  an invalid texture.

- Editor: libcurl used by Unity updated to version 8.10.1.

- HDRP: Wizard - Simplified the list of validations for IRenderPipelineGraphicsSettings.
    (UUM-77499)

- IL2CPP: Do not emit incremental GC write barriers for writes to function pointer fields

- IL2CPP: mdb symbol files will no longer be read during il2cpp player builds.

- IL2CPP: `[RequireDerived]` and `[RequireImplementors]` now mark all instance constructors of all types that they cause to be marked.

- iOS: Variants for iOS On Demand Resources have been updated with new options available in Xcode.

- Package Manager: Concurrent operations made with the `UnityEditor.PackageManager.Client` class are now processed sequentially instead of failing with a concurrency error.

- Plugins: Added `IUnityGraphics.h` in the Vulkan native rendering plugin header to eliminate the hidden include dependency.
    (UUM-85979)

- Serialization: Improved performance of reading texture data embedded in text files \(yes, text files\).

- Shaders: Improved shader compilation logging in the player.
    ([UUM-79781](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/log-shader-compilation-does-not-give-info-on-which-shader-instance-had-a-variant-compiled))



#### API Changes

- Android: Deprecated: ".getLocale\(\)" has been deprecated, ".getLanguageTag\(\)" is updated replacement.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: Marked "UnityEditor.AndroidDeviceFilterData" obsolete.

- Physics: Deprecated: Rigidbody.SetDensity has been deprecated, please use Rigidbody.mass instead to achieve the same simulation behavior.

- Web: Added: New Player setting called Enable Submodule Stripping Compatibility, off by default. Enable this setting if you intend to do submodule stripping.



#### Changes

- Android: Exposed physical camera support through the `WebCamTexture.devices` property on Android 10 and newer devices \(where available\).

- Android: Unity now uses `WindowInsetsController` and `setDecorFitsSystemWindows` APIs on Android 11 or newer versions instead of `setSystemUiVisibility` API. This affects the behavior of Unity APIs: Fullscreen Mode, Hide Navigation Bar, and Render outside safe area. The application appearance remains the same on devices using Android 10 or older compared to Android 11 or newer versions.

- Asset Import: Updated error messages for AAC audio imports when file contains 2048 samples or less.
    ([UUM-72024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dot-wav-and-ogg-audio-files-cant-be-imported-to-the-project-when-the-webgl-build-profile-is-selected))

- Editor: Minimum window width and minimum window height resolution settings are now available regardless of the Fullscreen Mode set for the application window in Android Player settings.

- Editor: Now use less-verbose version strings by default on official branches.
    ([UUM-85505](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/about-unity-window-shows-extended-version-numbers-including-staging-tag))

- Editor: Physics: Reverted a fix for small body tunnelling at high \(~200Hz\) simulation frequencies. If affected, use the recommended workaround to decrease ccd threshold to slightly under 1/4 of the half-extent of the scene's smallest object.

- Graphics: The Android Player Settings fields "Vulkan Device Allow List" and "Vulkan Device Deny List" have been made Obsolete. These are replaced by the "Vulkan Device Filter" Android Player Settings field and "Vulkan Device Filter Lists" asset type.

- Package: Deprecated Sequences, Live-capture, Python for Unity packages, and Cinematic feature set in Unity 6.1.

- Physics: Removed the **Enable Unified Heightmaps** options in the Physics settings because it doesn't have any effect on the TerrainCollider component since the upgrade to PhysX 4.1.
    (PHYS-394)



#### Fixes

- 2D: Fixed active buffers for overlay in Rendergraph2D.
    ([UUM-83013](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-using-stacking-cameras-with-two-different-renderer2ddata))

- 2D: Fixed case where 2D Renderer Breaks When Animating Material Property with MaterialPropertyBlock.
    ([UUM-85335](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-renderer-breaks-when-animating-material-property-with-materialpropertyblock))

- 2D: Fixed clear flags when skybox is used with Renderer2D.
    ([UUM-83351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bloom-keeps-building-up-in-2d-urp-when-bloom-intensity-is-over-0-and-skybox-with-any-material-is-used))

- 2D: Fixed issue where Tile Palettes with Hexagonal Flat Top layouts are drawn incorrectly as Hexagonal Point Top layout.
    ([UUM-83525](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hexagonal-flat-top-palette-tiles-appear-rotated-90-degrees-clockwise-when-observing-the-tile-palette-window))

- 2D: Fixed light blending issues with shadows.
    ([UUM-82787](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-light-overlap-order-is-not-evaluated-when-shadows-are-being-produced-with-render-graph-compatibility-mode-disabled))

- Accessibility: Fixed Accessibility Hierarchy Viewer empty field height issue.
    (UUM-77138)

- Accessibility: Fixed Android TalkBack touch to focus disabled nodes issue.
    (UUM-77508)

- Accessibility: Fixed text overflow when resizing Accessibility Hierarchy Viewer Inspector pane.
    ([UUM-82909](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/text-on-inspector-pane-in-hierarchy-viewer-overflows-into-hierarchy-pane))

- AI: Links were not generated in places where the NavMesh forms a ramp.
    ([UUM-78145](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmeshlinks-are-not-generated-when-using-generate-links))

- Android: Added dotnet webrequest feature for automatic internet access permission.
    ([UUM-83355](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-error-nameresolutionfailure-when-internet-access-is-set-to-auto))

- Android: Added the `BaseUnityGameActivityTheme.Translucent` theme for GameActivity.

- Android: Fixed a crash that occurs on GameActivity with Vulkan when the device is rotated during video playback launched through  `Handheld.PlayFullScreenMovie`.
    (UUM-77512)

- Android: Fixed a crash when calling UnityPlayer.UnitySendMessage from activity's onCreate method.
    ([UUM-85617](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-due-to-null-pointer-dereference-when-unityplayer-dot-unitysendmessage-is-called-in-oncreate))

- Android: Fixed an issue so that the Editor.log now contains an entry on how the application is launched. For example, `adb.exe -s "FA7A31A08307" shell am start -a android.intent.action.MAIN -c android.intent.category.LAUNCHER -f 0x10200000 -S -n "com.DefaultCompany.GameActivity/com.unity3d.player.UnityPlayerActivity"`.
    (UUM-84923)

- Android: Ignore harmless warnings coming from sdkmanager - "Errors during XML parse:", "Additionally, the fallback loader failed to parse the XML."

- Android: Unity no longer sets the theme attribute for application manifest in `unityLibrary` manifest. That means there's no default theme for activities and you're responsible for applying theme to your custom activities. This is because, there's no valid default theme which can be applied for both Activity and GameActivity at the same time.
    ([UUM-80017](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-player-silently-crashes-and-the-java-dot-lang-dot-illegalstateexception-you-need-to-use-a-theme-dot-appcompat-theme-or-descendant-with-this-activity-error-is-logged-when-the-render-over-native-ui-setting-is-enabled))

- Android: Updated game frame pacing `androidx.games:games-frame-pacing` package version  to 2.1.2.
    ([UUM-77169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-player-application-freezes-and-crashes-when-minimizing-and-maximizing-the-application-via-the-recents-screen))

- Animation: Fixed an issue where calls to AnimationUtility.GetEditorCurve were leaking memory in c\#.
    (UUM-87015)

- Animation: Fixed invalid default values of animated parameters in animator controller.
    ([UUM-73614](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-animation-curve-range-is-not-applied-properly))

- Audio: Fixed an issue that would cause Unity to crash if you perform an undo action in the audio random container window while the audio random container is playing.
    ([UUM-83230](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-undoing-added-clips-that-are-currently-playing-in-the-audio-random-container))

- Audio: Fixed error in in editor window for the AudioRandomContainer asset when undoing removal of an list element that was done in play mode after going back to edit mode.
    ([UUM-55847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-arc-audio-clip-entry-reference-is-lost-when-undoing-edits-made-in-play-mode))

- Audio: Fixed import errors for ATRAC9/XMA on Playstation/Xbox platforms.
    (UUM-83703)

- Build Pipeline: Added validation when building from a script to prevent use of incompatible options, such as ScriptDebugging in a non-development build.
    (UUM-78407)

- Cache Server: Fixed the crash while importing the Assets from Accelerator when it is disconnected.
    (UUM-76355)

- Documentation: Ensure that the scripting API docs distinguish between "Classes" and "Structs" in the hierarchy.

- Documentation: Improved EventInterestAttribute documentation by specifying what happens with event types that are not part of an EventInterestAttribute argument.
    ([UUM-79521](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/eventinterestattribute-does-not-filter-all-other-events-when-clickevent-is-specified))

- Editor: Added additional check to GraphicsSettings if URP or HDRP asset is a missing type.
    ([UUM-79997](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-nullreferenceexception-error-is-thrown-when-trying-to-add-tags-and-layers-when-urp-settings-are-present-in-the-project-with-a-broken-universalrp-asset))

- Editor: Adding an 'Include all scripts' checkbox option to the export window allows users to choose whether to include all project scripts in the export list. This serves as the initial step before addressing the script dependency issue.
    ([UUM-46345](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/items-that-are-not-referenced-in-scene-are-selected-when-exporting-scenes-package))

- Editor: Disable SRP batcher on the AssetImportWorker.
    ([UUM-77344](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-previews-in-the-project-window-sometimes-show-incorrectly))

- Editor: Do not accumulate vertical/horizontal scroll deltas for IMGUI events being triggered from native code.
    (UUM-79079)

- Editor: F-key functionality restored, and menu items enable/disable correctly.
    ([UUM-83883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ubuntu-cant-type-the-letter-f))

- Editor: Fixed 'Open Download Page' in the platform browser/Build Profile window leads to insecure download for editor not installed through Unity Hub.
    (UUM-84171)

- Editor: Fixed a background color for focused assets in Project window.
    ([UUM-86167](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-selector-disappears-in-the-project-window-when-selecting-anything-in-the-inspector-window))

- Editor: Fixed a crach with GRD and GPU Occlusion culling.
    ([UUM-83152](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gfxdeviced3d11base-drawbuffersbatchmode-when-rendering-the-scene-view))

- Editor: Fixed a crash caused by a \(rare\) failure to initialize NetworkListManager COM interface.
    (UUM-83823)

- Editor: Fixed a crash that occurred during Multiplayer Role Stripping when using scenes that contained Do Not Destroy On Load components.
    (MTTB-533)

- Editor: Fixed a crash when the UI option "Remove unused properties" is clicked on the default material.
    ([UUM-61599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-crash-on-material-removeunusedproperties-when-removing-unused-material-properties))

- Editor: Fixed a Linux crash on right click in the middle of a window drag.
    ([UUM-82814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-on-containerwindow-togglemaximize-when-clicking-rmb-while-moving-window-inside-the-editor))

- Editor: Fixed a mouse icons in the Shortcut Helper Bar issue.

- Editor: Fixed a null reference exception on macOS when modifying textures to mark them as normal maps through the NormalMap setting dialog.
    ([UUM-80063](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missingreferenceexception-after-clicking-fix-now-on-normalmap-settings))

- Editor: Fixed a null reference that would occur when converting Inspector Preview to a floating window.
    ([UUM-79366](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-error-is-logged-in-console-when-converting-inspectors-preview-to-floating-window))

- Editor: Fixed Additional Compiler argument not updating when switching tabs in Player Settings window or when selecting different platforms in Build Settings window.
    ([UUM-66839](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/additional-compiler-argument-is-not-displayed-in-the-project-settings-android-settings-tab-if-other-than-android-platform-is-selected-in-the-build-settings))

- Editor: Fixed an assertion asserts being spammed in the console when Maximum Reflection Probe count was higher than 64 \(HDRP\).
    ([UUM-86779](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-assertion-printed-when-maximum-reflection-probe-count-is-higher-than-64-due-to-k-maxcubereflectionsonscreen-when-raytracing-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed an issue by moving the registration of the SceneViewMotion and RectSelection shortcut contexts to the OnEnable method of the Scene view.
    ([UUM-86183](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-view-freezes-when-nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-in-a-delaycall))

- Editor: Fixed an issue that tree wireframe was incorrectly rendered outside of Scene view when editing a tree.
    ([UUM-82833](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/branch-editing-tools-draw-flashing-lines-with-black-backgrounds-in-editor-ui-windows))

- Editor: Fixed an issue to maintain consistency between different font sizes in the Hierarchy and Scene view windows.
    (UUM-78943)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Android build profiles with player settings overrides were not behaving based on the value of the scripting backed setting of the build profile, but instead were behaving based on the global/project settings player setting value.
    (UUM-85834)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where horizontal scrolling would not work when using a trackpad gesture.
    ([UUM-84867](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-explorer-window-cant-be-scrolled-horizontally-by-using-a-trackpad-gesture-when-there-is-no-vertical-scrollbar))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Occlusion baking parameters could be set to negative values.
    ([UUM-84378](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/occlusions-fields-can-be-set-to-negative-numbers))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Screen Space Shadows did not work on Decals.
    ([UUM-81517](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-space-decals-stop-receiving-shadows-when-screen-space-shadows-is-enabled-and-rendering-path-is-set-to-forward-or-forwads-plus))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where sometimes the Editor Tools system would not refresh when the selection changes while the Inspector window is locked.
    (UUM-54858)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the base class for a derived type without the \[Serializable\] tag was getting stripped during a player build.
    ([UUM-71116](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-in-pthread-kill-when-running-the-built-application-that-has-unity-editor-scripting-symbol-in-conditional-compilation))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the cursor is frozen in the Game view when the "Input System Package \(New\)" input handling is used and "UnityEngine.CursorMode" is set to "ForceSoftware".
    ([ISXB-986](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cursor-is-frozen-in-the-game-view-when-the-input-system-package-new-input-handling-is-used-and-unityengine-dot-cursormode-is-set-to-forcesoftware))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the default humanoid in the animation preview window would be pink when the auto option was selected.
    (UUM-84489)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the editor would incorrectly mark some objects as dirty in some cases.
    (UUM-83944)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Export window did not maintain initial selection after selecting different items in the Project Browser.
    (UUM-82656)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the items in the Window menu were not categorised and ordered alphabetically very good.
    (UUM-85947)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Progress Bar was misreporting the cause of Editor hangs in some cases.
    (UUM-79678)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the restart editor prompt for Graphics Jobs Mode appeared when switching between Windows and other platforms.
    (UUM-83947)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the show read only properties would not work correctly.
    (UUM-84654)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Tooltip windows did not have a title on Linux.
    ([UUM-83763](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-tooltips-have-an-unset-title-which-causes-the-inability-to-modify-tooltip-behavior-on-window-managers))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where toggling the Incremental GC or active input handling player settings and then restarting the editor didn't result in the new setting taking effect.
    (UUM-85422)

- Editor: Fixed build profile virtual texturing issues:<br>
    1. Updating the player setting value didn't get serialized to the asset file.<br>
    2. Toggling the virtual texture player setting for an inactive profile still showed the restart editor prompt.<br>
    3. Even after restarting the editor, we didn't update EditorOnlyVirtualTextureState.json that the PlayerSetting methods used as the source of truth for the setting, which resulted in a subsequent restart prompt appearing as the project was opening after the initial restart.
    (UUM-77905)

- Editor: Fixed Build profile window refreshed every frame on Android.
    (UUM-83850)

- Editor: Fixed console logs not being cleared on recompile if Clear on Recompile option is enabled.
    ([UUM-73031](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-console-window-is-not-cleared-when-scripts-are-recompiled-and-the-clear-on-recompile-option-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed corrupted Font crashing the editor when opened in FontAssetCreator.
    ([UUM-78705](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-textcore-fontengine-getfontfaces-slash-errors-are-thrown-when-reopening-the-font-asset-creator-when-a-specific-font-is-selected-as-the-source-font))

- Editor: Fixed crash that would occur due to memory corruption in the Burst domain after logging a warning to the Editor console.
    ([UUM-78956](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-unload-thread-main-when-reloading-scripts-after-switching-to-debug-mode))

- Editor: Fixed debug rendering error when rebaking APV with disk streaming enabled.
    (UUM-73635)

- Editor: Fixed duplicate separators appearing in the game object hierarchy menu.
    ([UUM-83272](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-separators-in-hierarchy-light-context-menu))

- Editor: Fixed Editor errors caused when "RGB + 1-bit Alpha Compressed ETC2 4 bits" compression is used.
    ([UUM-65395](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-libetc-init-when-changing-webgl-texture-format-to-rgb-plus-1-bit-alpha-compressed-etc2-4-bits))

- Editor: Fixed EditorApplication.isFocused returning false in Play mode.
    ([UUM-83091](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorapplication-dot-isfocused-returns-false-when-entering-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed for 'Recursive serialization is not allowed for threaded serialization' when the build profile context instance is created in a serialization callback.
    (UUM-84096)

- Editor: Fixed Inter not being created at runtime issue.
    ([UUM-79518](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-is-not-visible-when-displayed-in-runtime))

- Editor: Fixed issue where Scene View navigation would not function properly when using a pen tablet as the input device.
    ([UUM-77768](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-scene-view-is-not-rotating-when-pressing-the-binded-rmb-button-on-a-drawing-tablet-and-moving-the-drawing-pen))

- Editor: Fixed issue with emojis in TextField on mobile.
    ([UUM-72689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-writing-text-or-adding-more-emojis-after-an-emoji-in-the-inputfield-causes-the-first-emoji-to-disappear-and-be-changed-to-two-question-marks-when-hide-mobile-input-is-enabled-on-some-android-devices))

- Editor: Fixed issue with emojis in TextField on mobile.
    ([UUM-78397](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-on-libsystem-platform-dot-dylib-platform-strlen-when-hide-mobile-input-is-toggled-and-inputting-emoji-characters))

- Editor: Fixed issues where the TextureImporterInspector could sometimes fail to retrieve texture platform settings for platforms with more than one valid internal name \(example: "iPhone" / "iOS"\).
    ([UUM-73858](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-selecting-a-sprite-with-a-custom-default-textureimporter-preset))

- Editor: Fixed memory leak in Texture2D.CreateExternalTexture when using D3D11 platform.
    ([UUM-77354](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-in-texture2d-dot-createexternaltexture-when-using-d3d11-platform))

- Editor: Fixed missing legacy deformers shapes for new water decal.
    (UUM-85483)

- Editor: Fixed NullReferenceException when Target of the RenderFunc is null.

- Editor: Fixed random editor freeze when generating lighting.
    ([UUM-84915](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lighting-generation-freezes-the-editor-during-the-global-illumination-post-processing-stage-when-baking-lighting-on-certain-systems))

- Editor: Fixed reimport Raytrace shader when switching between Mac, Windows, and Linux build target.
    ([UUM-83044](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assets-that-have-a-platform-dependency-are-not-reimported-when-moving-the-project-from-mac-to-windows))

- Editor: Fixed rendering issues for XRSettings.renderViewportScale when using Vulkan.
    ([UUM-83765](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quest-visual-distortions-in-the-top-half-of-the-screen-when-changing-resolution-scale-for-player-built-with-vulkan))

- Editor: Fixed some settings Asset icons that were missing in the selection window.
    ([UUM-83464](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lighting-settings-asset-icon-is-missing-in-the-selection-window))

- Editor: Fixed sprite asset fallbacks not working on a job.
    ([UUM-85568](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-are-not-generated-when-using-fallback-sprite-assets))

- Editor: Fixed text not being updated after changing some FontAsset's values.
    (UUM-82887)

- Editor: Fixed the drag line of the splitter not sticking to the mouse position
    ([UUM-79619](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-settings-vertical-separator-position-is-not-synchronized-with-the-mouse-position-when-dragging-it-horizontally))

- Editor: Fixed the over-clamping of delta time value applied to "unity_DeltaTime".
    ([UUM-35772](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-global-shader-variable-unity-deltatime-dot-x-value-does-not-match-the-time-dot-deltatime-value-when-compared-via-script))

- Editor: Fixed warning about probe volume.
    ([UUM-75179](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-multiple-shader-warnings-are-thown-in-the-console-after-building-water-samples-scenes))

- Editor: Fixed warning message occurring when Focusing a text just after enabling a UIDocument.
    ([UUM-83856](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cant-generate-mesh-no-font-asset-has-been-assigned-warning-is-thrown-when-setting-focus-to-a-visual-element))

- Editor: Fixed Window menu Package Manager, Asset Store, Services and My Assets have been moved to a Package Management submenu. This may impact user-defined keyboard shortcuts or scripts relying on menu item paths. Refer to the upgrade guide for more details about this change.

- Editor: Fixed Window menu Version Control menu item has been moved to a Version Control submenu and renamed External Provider. This may impact user-defined keyboard shortcuts or scripts relying on menu item paths. Refer to the upgrade guide for more details about this change.

- Editor: Fixes DeviceSimulator to implement Touch.rawPosition to return the starting position of the simulated touch contact.
    ([UUM-58248](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/touch-dot-rawposition-always-returns-00-when-clicking-or-dragging-anywhere-on-the-screen-in-the-play-mode))

- Editor: Mouse jumping is disabled on Linux when using Wayland.
    ([UUM-82831](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-wayland-slider-values-or-scene-view-moves-exponentially-faster-when-moving-the-mouse-to-a-side-of-the-monitor))

- Editor: The Linux editor will now reduce CPU usage when moved to the background, respecting the "Interaction Mode" setting.
    ([UUM-79514](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-high-cpu-usage-when-editor-interaction-mode-is-set-to-no-throttling))

- Editor: Wizard - Some validations were showing the fix button when it was not needed.
    ([UUM-78839](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-wizard-fix-buttons-have-no-functionality-when-setting-up-hdrp-plus-dxr))

- Editor: \[URP\]\[RG\] Incorrect partial blur when using RenderGraph in URP
    ([UUM-79602](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-partial-blur-when-using-rendergraph-in-urp))

- Entities: Fixed an issue where an exception would be thrown when exiting play mode after closing and opening a sub scene.
    ([UUM-86554](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-prefab-error-appears-in-the-console-window-when-re-importing-the-sub-scene-containing-a-prefab-during-repeated-entry-into-play-mode))

- GI: Fixed a negative loop iteration count on Switch.
    (UUM-83610)

- GI: Fixed an issue where Adaptive Probe Volumes could not be baked when the chosen graphics library is GLES.

- GI: Fixed an issue where exporting a unitypackage with a scene using Adaptive Probe Volumes didn't include all the lighting data.
    (UUM-79581)

- GI: Fixed an issue where sampling of Adaptive Probe Volumes was incorrect when using leak reduction modes on GLES.
    (UUM-82539)

- GI: Fixed to remove the loaded data when a temporary baking set is created.
    (UUM-73654)

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when using native graphics jobs on Metal.
    ([UUM-44469](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-crashes-without-stack-frames-in-metal-submission-thread-on-macos-when-graphics-jobs-are-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed a problem with Texture Streaming where a material could remain blurry and not streamed in for an undefined amount of time.
    ([UUM-73384](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-material-variant-is-rendered-blurry-after-reopening-unity-when-the-mipmap-streaming-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed a rare crash on certain Samsung devices when running GLES.
    (UUM-29705)

- Graphics: Fixed an issue where "glClientWaitSync: Expected application to have kicked everything until job" error is spammed when disabling Raw Image.
    ([UUM-35986](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-opengl-glclientwaitsync-expected-application-to-have-kicked-everything-until-job-error-is-spammed-when-disabling-raw-image))

- Graphics: Fixed an Issue where resizing the SceneView would throw errors.
    ([UUM-83527](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendertexture-create-failed-errors-are-shown-in-the-console-when-the-scene-window-is-shrunk-with-bloom-intensity-set-to-1))

- Graphics: Fixed glFramebufferTexture2DMultisampleEXT failure on Adreno drivers when per-format max MSAA limit exceeds global max MSAA limit.
    (UUM-76807)

- Graphics: Fixed GPUResidentDrawer crash in ParallelSortExtensions.ParallelSort because of an array being diposed while still used by some jobs.
    ([UUM-83578](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-parallelsortextensions-parallelsort))

- Graphics: Fixed GPUResidentDrawer deadlock because of a double dispose of CPUSharedInstanceData.materialIDArrays.
    (UUM-83561)

- Graphics: Fixed GPUResidentDrawer Editor crash on Metal when occluderDepthPyramidKernels compute shader import fails.
    (UUM-84509)

- Graphics: Fixed msaa resolves of SetRenderTarget-based rending not being done before beginning a new renderpass.
    ([UUM-72239](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fullscreen-blit-is-not-working-when-render-graph-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed RayTracingAccelerationStructure.AddInstances assigning the same instance ID to all ray tracing instances added to the acceleration structure, making it impossible to identify individual instances added using this function.
    ([UUM-85733](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raytracing-impossible-to-identify-individual-instances-added-using-rtas-dot-addinstances-in-a-compute-shader-when-using-ray-queries))

- Graphics: Fixed Reset of the default VolumeProfile in ProjectSettings &gt; Graphics.
    (UUM-77760)

- Graphics: Fixed SRP Batcher checking the against the active render pipeline causing incorrect bindings
    ([UUM-77168](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragon-crashers-ui-toolkit-has-a-corrupted-profile-icon-in-player))

- Graphics: On Metal, the blend state and color mask specified in Shader Passes are now applied to the correct render targets.
    ([UUM-83382](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-silicon-colormask-render-target-3-and-above-does-not-work-correctly-when-using-multiple-render-target))

- Graphics: The Render pass API was sometimes erroneously considering a configuration that was valid as invalid when rendering to array slices or mipmaps.

- HDRP: Ensure custom post-processing effects are disabled when post-processing is disabled.
    (UUM-78486)

- HDRP: Fixed a bug that caused HDAdditionalLightData with preserveCachedShadow to be evicted from the cachedShadowManager.
    ([UUM-83766](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-add-renderer-to-the-scene-after-culling-dot-and-nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-errors-spawned-when-changing-the-light-shadow-settings-in-the-player))

- HDRP: Fixed a shader error when using water excluder with entities.
    ([UUM-86522](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-exclusion-shader-doesnt-work-with-brg))

- HDRP: Fixed advanced upsampler settings not visible on platforms where they are not supported.
    (UUM-84078)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue by adding clamp to HairAngleWorld to prevent nan from FastASin.
    ([UUM-72279](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-scene-view-flickers-when-moving-around-if-there-are-visible-hair-shaders))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where DebugDisplay Camera list grew beyond number of active cameras, every time a camera was registered or unregistered.
    (UUM-86686)

- HDRP: Fixed black line artifacts on top of the screen with DRS and downsampled SSAO.
    ([UUM-69425](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/artifacts-are-seen-in-the-game-view-when-setting-dlss-custom-quality-mode-to-ultra-performance-and-using-the-qhd-resolution-in-play-mode))

- HDRP: Fixed HairVertex instancing-related shader-compilation issues.
    ([UUM-84231](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hair-is-not-visible-in-player-when-hq-line-renderer-is-enabled-in-the-minimal-hair-sample))

- HDRP: Fixed layer index out of range in LayeredLitGUI.
    ([UUM-71157](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/layer-lit-4th-layer-not-working))

- HDRP: Fixed Screen-Space Subsurface Scattering leaking from material with a subsurface mask set to 0.
    ([UUM-76359](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/subsurface-scattering-is-leaking-color-from-areas-with-subsurface-mask-to-0))

- HDRP: Fixed to avoid calling the Cleanup method twice so the celestial data remains.
    ([UUM-83616](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-empty-template-starts-with-incorrect-physically-based-sky-ground))

- HDRP: Fixed wrong SSR when using a shader graph with a clear coat value of 0.
    ([UUM-84980](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-clear-coat-materials-produce-screen-space-reflections-when-the-clear-coat-value-is-0-in-forward-only-lit-shader-mode))

- HDRP: Ignore material variants with log message.
    (UUM-72639)

- IL2CPP: Fixed "DllNotFoundException: Unable to load DLL 'kernel32.dll'" error on Universal Windows Platform when using HttpClient.
    ([UUM-79112](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dllnotfoundexception-unable-to-load-dll-kernel32-dot-dll-is-thrown-when-using-httpclient-on-hololens-2))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a memory corruption on a constrained call on an integral pointer type in unsafe generic code.

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue by removing a potential 1000ms delay during shutdown.

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue where Il2CppEagerStaticClassConstructionAttribute did not have defined behavior which resulted in an out of order initialization on nested static constructors.
    ([UUM-84202](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-dot-mathematics-dot-affinetransform-dot-identity-returns-a-zero-filled-value-when-a-project-is-built-with-an-il2cpp-background))

- IL2CPP: Fixed crash when creating too many threads.
    (UUM-78115)

- IL2CPP: Fixed issue with the wrong calling convention being used on function pointers when two function pointers with the same signature only differed by calling convention.

- Input System: Fixed an internal Unity issue that could cause the Input System package to stop processing data from devices.
    ([UUM-85315](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-is-not-received-after-some-time-when-using-a-gamepad))

- iOS: Checking ARKit requirement in custom build profiles player settings will fill camera description the same way it does in project settings.
    (UUM-84779)

- iOS: Fixed an issue to make On Demand Resources variant settings customizable in player settings of a custom build profile.
    (UUM-85569)

- iOS: Fixed plugin framework folders showing up red in exported iOS Xcode project.
    (UUM-84687)

- iOS: Fixed the character limit of the keyboard shown with TouchScreenKeyboard.Open.
    ([UUM-77509](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-touchscreenkeyboard-allows-an-extra-character-when-characterlimit-is-set))

- iOS: Fixed the Use On-Demand Resources player setting so it can be overridden when using a build profile.
    (UUM-84440)

- License: Updated Licensing Client to 1.16.0.

- Linux: Fixed new input touch timestamps
    (UUM-79893)

- macOS: Fixed an issue with \[Application.targetFrameRate\]\(ScriptRef:Application-targetFrameRate\) so it's now ignored if the value of \[QualitySettings.vSyncCount\]\(ScriptRef:QualitySettings-vSyncCount\) is greater than 0.
    ([UUM-83568](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vsynccount-is-ignored-on-macos-standalone-player))

- Mono: Fixed a crash for MONO_TYPE_FNPTR cases in mono_field_get_value_object_checked.
    ([UUM-79025](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-raiseexception-when-using-the-default-equals-object-implementation-in-a-value-type-containing-a-function-pointer))

- Mono: Fixed a possible out-of-bounds memory write when inlining code with code coverage enabled.
    (UUM-83778)

- Mono: Fixed a potential read beyond the end of a buffer on MacOS when iterating directories.
    (UUM-83824)

- Mono: Fixed an exception being thrown due to a race condition within Encoding.GetEncoding.
    (UUM-82959)

- Mono: Fixed JIT trampoline memory leak with Timers and Sockets.
    ([UUM-76306](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-when-using-net-sockets))

- Mono: Fixeda  rare NullReferenceException during a constrained call on a value type.
    ([UUM-79115](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-mono-release-mode-jit-causes-an-error-when-using-a-memorymappedfile))

- Networking: Fixed an issue where TLS connections would fail to be established after a certain time/number.
    ([UUM-83744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tlsexception-handshake-failed-error-code-unitytls-internal-error-error-when-a-lot-of-web-requests-are-sent-within-a-few-minutes))

- Package Manager: Dependency resolution no longer breaks when there is a dependency on a core package with a different version. Instead, the Package Manager will use the built-in package version. It is possible to preserve the previous behaviour and override specific core packages with a version pulled from a custom scoped registry by adding the following to the scoped registry configuration: `"overrideBuiltIns": true`.

- Package Manager: Fix the issue where using the 'Window.Open" API to select a package would silently fails when it is hidden by "Show PreRelease Package Versions" setting.
    (UUM-82771)

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where the refresh timestamp does not get updated when users click on `Refresh List` button.
    ([UUM-77972](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/last-update-time-is-not-refreshed-when-clicking-the-refresh-list-button))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where UnityEditor.PackageManager.UI.Sample.FindByPackage will no longer throw an exception when passed an unknown package.
    (UUM-86326)

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue with the overflow of tabs dropdown icon.
    (UUM-79591)

- Package Manager: Fixed NullException thrown in a multi page wizard import when clicking on the previous button.
    (UUM-82611)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where incorrect registry info is shown for packages that do not belong to any registry.
    (UUM-84168)

- Package Manager: Users can now import without having to choose a project setting with at least one asset previously selected.
    (UUM-82612)

- Particles: Scheduling a Particle System job outside of MonoBehaviour.OnParticleUpdateJobScheduled\(\) will now generate an InvalidOperationException in order to prevent incorrect job schedules which could cause a hang.
    ([UUM-79599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freezes-slash-hangs-when-calling-schedulebatch-for-ijobparticlesystemparallelforbatch))

- Physics: Fixed a race condition inside Physics Debugger's contacts tab. Where the underlying contacts array would be incorrectly passed onto new jobs while still in use inside the previous set of contacts display jobs.
    (PHYS-387)

- Physics: Fixed an issue where mass distribution updates with regards to setting the center of mass for a Rigidbody component would not affect WheelCollider components.
    ([UUM-84990](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vehicle-body-is-lifted-way-above-wheels-containing-a-wheelcollider-component-when-entering-play-mode))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where Physics Debugger wouldn't take physics shape scale into account when rendering.
    ([UUM-83050](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-physics-debugger-displays-incorrect-collision-volume-when-compared-to-its-collider-bounds))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where the CharacterController component would not properly have it's transform synced to the data set to the Transform component.
    ([UUM-83065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerenter-is-triggered-when-editing-character-controller-slope-limit))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where the debug draw representation of TerrainCollider was incorrect after changing the position of it's GameObject.
    (PHYS-392)

- Physics: Fixed an issue where vehicle data would not be preserved when adding multiple WheelCollider components using the GameObject scripting APIs.
    ([UUM-85527](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/colliders-of-gameobject-with-rigidbody-component-fail-to-collide-with-another-gameobject-when-rigidbody-becomes-kinematic))

- Physics: Fixed an issue with CharacterController and WheelCollider components where a complete collision mask conflict \(one mask indicates collision, while the other indicates to ignore the collision and the layer override priority is the same for both masks\) would be resolved as 'collide' rather than 'ignore', resulting in unexpected collision events.
    (PHYS-383)

- Physics: Fixed an issue with TerrainCollider's tree debug visualization not being displayed at all.
    (PHYS-397)

- Physics: Fixed an issue with the Cloth component's inspector where exiting play-mode with the self and inter collision tool open would cause a null reference exception.
    ([UUM-78853](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-and-cannot-modify-overlay-dot-displayed-during-event-of-type-eventtype-dot-layout-shown-when-entering-the-play-mode-with-self-collision-and-inter-collision-window-focused))

- Physics: Fixed CharacterJoint's derrived axis locks being ignored. This would cause some ragdoll setups for never come to rest during simulation.
    ([UUM-83156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/character-joints-unexpectedly-rotate-when-a-ragdoll-is-created-using-the-ragdoll-wizard))

- Physics: Fixed Repeated OnTriggerEnter Events with CharacterController Slope Limit Updates.
    ([UUM-83065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerenter-is-triggered-when-editing-character-controller-slope-limit))

- Physics: Renamed serialized property names within Rigidbody component: m_Drag and m_AngularDrag are now m_LinearDamping and m_AngularDamping. The change was done in order to no longer be inconsistent with respect to the Rigidbody API which already adheres to this naming convention.
    (PHYS-396)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where custom tool buttons in the Tools overlay would unnecessarily consume GPU resources every editor frame.
    ([UUM-84132](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gpu-utilization-increases-when-a-gameobject-is-selected))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed EditorTools icon not showing when importing a new package.
    (UUM-86481)

- Scene/Game View: Reduced the state update time for custom tool buttons in the Tools overlay.
    (UUM-84264)

- Search: Ensure SearchViewItem doesn't modify SearchItem state.
    ([UUM-79399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/select-preset-inspector-header-background-changes-size-between-none-and-create-new-preset-with-no-change-in-content))

- Search: Ensure SearchViewItem doesn't modify SearchItem state.
    ([UUM-79646](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/select-preset-none-icon-changes-after-switching-tabs))

- Search: Fixed Audio Mixer asset icons in the Search window.
    ([UUM-73173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-mixer-assets-are-using-the-wrong-icons-in-search))

- Search: Fixed Scene Provider search when a string property is a numerical value.
    ([UUM-69142](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-results-are-not-displayed-when-a-string-property-is-a-numeric-value))

- Search: Search Scene Selector shows file with unity in their name.
    ([UUM-83640](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-scene-selector-shows-file-with-unity-in-their-name))

- Search: Using ReuseWindow SearchFlags won't create a new window and won't change its position.
    ([UUM-75480](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-open-search-all-window-will-move-to-newest-additional-window-when-accessing))

- Serialization: Fixed a crash on ReadAndActivateObjectThreaded when reimporting a missing PSB file prefab.
    ([UUM-59093](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-readandactivateobjectthreaded-when-reimporting-a-missing-psb-file-prefab))

- Shadergraph: Added missing documentation about the Custom Render Texture in Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-76730](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-documentation-page-on-custom-render-texture-shadergraph))

- Shadergraph: Added new manipulator for ShaderGraph MainPreview to fix wrong drag handing on OSX.
    ([UUM-76223](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-shader-graph-main-preview-is-rotated-on-mouse-movement-after-changing-the-main-preview-type))

- Shadergraph: Fixed a bug that a shader graph is reverted to its last saved state when entering Play Mode without saving changes.
    ([UUM-49399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-is-reverted-to-its-primary-state-when-entering-play-mode-without-saving-changes))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where the Main Light Direction node always returned 0 on the built-in render pipeline.
    ([UUM-78803](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-main-light-direction-node-in-the-shader-graph-does-not-output-light-direction-for-directional-light-when-used-with-the-built-in-render-pipeline))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where Unity pragmas were not used in files included by the Custom Function Node, and added a "Use Pragmas" toggle to enable/disable them as needed.
    (UUM-78849)

- Shadergraph: Mark a shader graph dirty when toggling checkboxes in its Graph Settings.
    (UUM-83383)

- Shadergraph: \[Metal\] Fix shader compilation errors due to Foveated Rendering when building URP 3D template.
    (UUM-77815)

- Shaders: Fixed a crash that could occur when a shadow caster pass is deleted due to shader errors.
    (UUM-82622)

- Shaders: Fixed a rare crash when saving the tracked shader variants into a variant collection.
    ([UUM-86510](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-when-saving-currently-tracked-variants-to-asset))

- Shaders: Fixed BiRP support for strict shader variant matching.
    ([UUM-58290](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-is-missing-when-strict-shader-variant-matching-is-enabled-in-the-player-settings))

- Shaders: Fixed compute shader compilation variant cache hits to be reported correctly in the editor log.
    ([UUM-75264](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-cache-is-not-used-when-building-the-player-repeatedly))

- Shaders: Fixed editor rendering cyan on game/scene view at each editor startup.
    ([UUM-75262](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-are-always-recompiled-when-the-editor-is-opened))

- Shaders: Fixed implicit randomwrite shader requirement for compute shaders.
    (UUM-85545)

- Shaders: Fixed rare occasions of objects batching together incorrectly.
    (UUM-35593)

- Shaders: Fixed shader compiler crashing when encountering a kernel directive without a provided name.
    ([UUM-85898](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/internal-shader-error-is-shown-when-a-corrupted-shader-is-imported))

- Shaders: Shader inspector now shows the highest number of variants per shader stage instead of number of vertex stage variants.
    ([UUM-55971](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-inspector-of-a-shader-asset-does-not-show-the-correct-number-of-vertex-and-fragment-shader-variants-when-using-multi-compile-fragment-directive))

- Shaders: Shaders will now produce errors when encountering the same keyword in different directives.
    ([UUM-55930](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unnecessary-shader-variants-caused-by-the-same-keyword-when-declared-in-both-multi-compile-and-shader-feature-local))

- SpeedTree: Fixed a crash in SpeedTreeWindManager with certain prefab assets when play mode was engaged.
    ([UUM-85328](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-anonymous-namespace-preparetreesandwritewindparamsjobdata-execute-when-entering-play-mode-on-a-specific-project-1))

- SpeedTree: Importer error for .st files when there are special characters in the file path.
    ([UUM-83783](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/speedtree-importer-fails-to-import-st-files-when-path-to-the-project-includes-a-special-character))

- SRP Core: Fixed an issue where Lens Flare was not rendering properly in OpenGLES3.
    (UUM-84431)

- SRP Core: Fixed missing STP shaders &amp; visual artifacts when targeting GLCore renderer.
    (UUM-84661)

- SRP Core: Fixed render graph incorrectly handling rendering to array slices and mipmaps other than 0 in some cases.
    (UUM-77828)

- SRP Core: Render Graph Viewer - Padding corrected on burger menu on the side panels.
    ([UUM-84012](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/render-graphs-kebab-menu-buttons-are-missing-padding-and-highlight-is-uneven-when-hovered-over))

- Terrain: Fixed an issue in which calling terrainData.SyncTexture\(TerrainData.HolesTextureName\) causes a crash when no holes have been created before due to a null variable.
    (UUM-76880)

- Text: Fixed an issue to improved WeakReference handling to protect against the \(extremely unlikely, but still possible\) event that the GC runs between checking that the handle is alive and dereferencing it.
    (UUM-86325)

- Text: Fixed an issue where the text cache would continue to refer to a cleared font asset.
    ([UUM-79381](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-fallback-source-continues-to-refer-to-the-clearfontassetdataed-glyph-after-clearfontassetdata-is-applied))

- Text: Fixed out of range issue when dragging on a empty field.
    ([UUM-79222](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-is-thrown-when-continuously-clicking-the-textfield-and-dragging))

- Text: Removed redundant check for null SpriteCharacters when generating text meshes.
    (UUM-86328)

- TextCore: Fixed an ATG crash that would occur with static FontAsset.
    (UUM-78094)

- TextCore: Fixed an issue to ensure the editor only clear FontAssets that are initialized.
    ([UUM-82370](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-fontasset-dot-clearatlastextures-set-the-size-of-atlases-to-1x1-when-setatlassizetozero-is-true-resulting-in-a-constant-clearing-of-atlases-of-size-1x1-on-editor-shutdown))

- TextCore: Fixed thread issue when using CJK text.
    ([UUM-78458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unityexception-get-bytes-can-only-be-called-from-the-main-thread-dot-error-is-thrown-when-asset-name-contains-chinese-characters))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed a flush alignment not being exact in TMP issue.
    ([UUM-85001](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textmeshpro-text-is-misaligned-when-it-should-align-in-the-flush-style))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed a TMP crash on Hyphen wrapping.
    ([UUM-84379](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-hangs-when-rendering-tmp-text-component-with-left-and-right-margins-set-in-the-extra-settings))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed an issue where tint would affect every emoji until a new sprite tag would be used.
    ([UUM-76467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textmeshpro-emojis-inherit-tint-values-when-placed-after-a-tag))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed color picker not being the same color as the Text in the scene.
    ([UUM-77652](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-color-in-the-inspector-is-different-than-the-gameobject-in-the-scene-when-changing-the-material-face-color))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed the broken URL of the help button on the TextMesh Pro Settings page.
    ([UUM-74086](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sorry-dot-dot-dot-that-page-seems-to-be-missing-is-a-result-when-user-clicks-on-textmesh-pro-settings-help-icon))

- TextMeshPro: Updated "Examples and Extras" scenes to be compatible with URP and HDRP.
    ([UUM-74205](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-examples-and-extras-scene-24-shaders-broken))

- uGUI: Fixed exception thrown when pasting text into TMP inputfield with custom validator.
    ([UUM-76312](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-is-thrown-when-using-textmeshpro-input-field-with-custom-validator))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed a null-ref exception when converting the UXML preview window into floating mode.
    (UUM-85493)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue so VisualElement hovered style properly rendered in the first frame.
    (UUM-82985)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where the UI Builder can now be open during a package reimport.
    ([UUM-77727](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-using-the-at-import-directive-in-uss-files))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed AttributeOverrides overriding attributes that were only included in the templated asset. This would also cause asset references to be lost if they were not explicitly overriden.
    ([UUM-84102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-broken-direct-asset-reference-overrides))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed incorrect reporting of 'Out of root' elements in the UI Layout Debugger.
    (UUM-86327)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed inverted y sign in PointerMoveEvent.deltaPosition when using touch input with Active Input Handling = Input Manager \(old\).
    ([UUM-78963](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-ios-the-pointermoveevent-dot-deltaposition-returns-an-inverted-y-axis-when-using-pointermanipulator-to-track-pointer-movements-on-mobile))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed labels alignment for IMGUI containers.
    ([UUM-70643](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serialized-field-is-indented-too-much-in-the-inspector-when-customeditor-is-used))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed popup fields not handling pointer up events.
    ([UUM-85620](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selection-of-multi-select-listview-is-changed-when-interacting-with-child-element-in-an-editorwindow))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed serialization of UxmlAttributes for Lists and Arrays of unity objects.
    (UUM-83779)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the slider fill element when showing inverted.
    ([UUM-83599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-slider-fill-option-doesnt-invert-when-inverted-option-is-selected))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the UI Builder Learn More URL so it includes the correct version of the Editor.
    ([UUM-77080](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/stylesheets-learn-more-hyperlink-links-to-lts-documentation-instead-of-the-editor-version-that-is-in-use))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Builder not displaying the name of some elements in the hierarchy when they did not use UxmlElement or UxmlFactory.
    (UUM-84170)

- UI Toolkit: The UXML file importer will now show a button to fix issues with any file paths that have changed but can still be resolved via their guid. Importer errors/warnings can now also be seen in the assets inspector.
    ([UUM-83531](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-icon-image-path-in-a-uxml-file-is-not-updated-when-a-texture-is-renamed-or-moved-after-modifying-and-saving-the-uxml-file-in-the-ui-builder))

- Undo System: Fixed an issue to ensure driven RectTransforms have the correct driving object when applying undo and redo.
    ([UUM-80046](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-is-marked-as-dirty-when-opening-the-project-with-vertical-layout-group-added-as-a-component))

- Undo System: Mark array size changes to keep duplicates within a single undo action.
    (UUM-84565)

- Universal RP: Fixed a depth texture format used for URP 2D RenderPass with Android devices issue.
    (UUM-86791)

- Universal RP: Fixed a redundant empty line in a tooltip for Cast Shadows toggle in the URP Asset for Additional lights.
    ([UUM-83534](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/redundant-empty-space-on-tooltip-for-cast-shadows-option-for-additional-lights))

- Universal RP: Fixed a warning, "Missing types referenced from component UniversalRenderPipelineGlobalSettings..." which was caused by the URP Template project on platforms where ENABLE_VR is not defined.
    ([UUM-82247](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-types-referenced-from-component-universalrenderpipelineglobalsettings-on-game-object-universalrenderpipelineglobalsettings-dot-dot-dot-warning-is-thrown-after-switching-the-platform-to-tvos))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where Game View would flip upside down when using HDR Debug Mode.
    ([UUM-83764](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-is-flipped-upside-down-when-hdr-debug-mode-is-set-to-gamut-view-in-the-lighting-rendering-debugger))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where WorldToCamera matrix wasn't set before rendering shadows.
    ([UUM-84287](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-shadows-affected-by-custom-shaders-change-their-scale-and-position-when-the-scene-camera-is-adjusted))

- Universal RP: Fixed black pixels \(NaN\) in Lens Distort post-processing effect.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed incorrectly bright pixels by clamping alpha after additive blending to 0-1 range in post-processing when using camera stacking with render scale.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed invalid alpha output for scaling setup shader when using camera stacking with render scale on URP compatibility path.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed invalid viewport for post-process when using camera stacking with render scale.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed post-process FSR upscaling and _ScreenParams for stacked Overlay cameras.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed spamming errors and broken visual when resizing GameView with Free Aspect in DepthBlit sample.
    ([UUM-84029](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-slash-game-view-visually-breaks-and-console-is-spammed-with-errors-when-using-depthblit-sample-scene))

- Universal RP: Optimized finalblit pass load operation bandwidth cost for XR.
    (UUM-60997)

- Universal RP: Remove "AssertionException The RenderTextureDescriptor used to create a TextureDesc contains both graphicsFormat and depthStencilFormat".
    (UUM-84871)

- Universal Windows Platform: Stop reading mdb symbol files during player builds.
    ([UUM-79478](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-fails-with-il2cpp-error-when-building-for-uwp))

- Universal Windows Platform: When graphics jobs are enabled in Universal Windows Platform, Split graphics jobs are used instead of Native jobs with DX12.
    (UUM-77903)

- URP: Fixed the CameraDepthAttachment turning black for DX11.
    ([UUM-64316](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-with-cameradepthattachment-is-not-rendered-when-using-dx11-graphics-api))

- URP: Removed 'implicit truncation of vector type' warnings at URP ScreenSpaceAmbientOcclusion.shader.
    ([UUM-79253](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-are-thrown-after-building-universal-3d-sample-template))

- Version Control: UnityYAMLMerge is now able to open files when using long file paths on Windows.
    ([UUM-77908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unityyamlmerge-cannot-open-files-when-using-long-file-paths-on-windows))

- VFX Graph: Creating a Custom HLSL operator with two outputs could prevent the generated shader from compiling
    ([UUM-83676](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-custom-hlsl-operator-with-two-output-parameters-function-duplicates-its-code))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue subgraph blocks did not accept correct types of block based on their suitable context.
    ([UUM-83521](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-subgraph-nesting-isnt-functionnal))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue when importing old VFX asset in Unity6 using custom attribute with same name as built-in attribute.
    ([UUM-83849](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-attributes-will-be-duplicated-upon-upgrading-if-a-built-in-attribute-name-was-used-in-versions-2022-dot-3-and-earlier))

- VFX Graph: Fixed VFX particles GBuffer pass with URP Render Graph.
    ([UUM-83385](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spot-slash-point-lights-do-not-affect-vfx-graph-output-when-compatibility-mode-render-graph-disabled-is-disabled))

- VFX Graph: Incorrect sanitization of SetCustomAttribute when Random was different than Random.Off
    ([UUM-83598](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-random-value-option-in-the-set-attribute-block-gets-disabled-and-the-b-slash-max-value-lost-when-upgrading-to-unity-6))

- VFX Graph: Missing delayed field for Sample Water Surface Operator.
    ([UUM-84054](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-input-field-freezes-when-editing-sample-water-surface-node-vfx-graph))

- VFX Graph: Particle outputs connected to particle strip systems don't render last particle.
    ([UUM-84424](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/disrepancy-between-shadergraph-and-vanilla-outputs-when-using-indexinstrip))

- VFX Graph: Unexpected log "Expression graph was marked as dirty after compiling context for UI" while using Custom HLSL based operators.
    ([UUM-84060](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-the-error-expression-graph-was-marked-as-dirty-after-compiling-context-for-ui-is-thrown-after-editing-sample-water-surface-node))

- VFX Graph: Using the same name as a built-in attribute in a custom HLSL function's parameter would lead to a compilation error.
    ([UUM-83782](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-hsls-redefinition-error-when-input-have-the-same-name-as-attributes))

- Video: Fixed an issue where video contained artifacts when played in the Video Preview section in the Inspector Window.
    ([UUM-83600](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-contains-artifacts-when-played-in-the-video-preview-section-in-the-inspector-window))

- Video: Fixed Video with transparency having artifacts on the border of the sprite.
    ([UUM-74644](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-artifacts-in-video-file-on-android-player))

- Video: Updating WebCamTextures on some Android devices may have resulted in errors due to re-initializing already initialized graphics textures - this has been fixed so that initialization is skipped when unnecessary.
    (UUM-84151)

- VisionOS: Fixed an issue where the plugin framework folders were showing up red in exported VisionOS Xcode project.
    (UUM-84687)

- VisionOS: OnApplicationFocus\(false\) is now called when a visionOS app in Metal app mode is sent to the background.
    ([AVPB-443](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onapplicationfocus-isnt-called-when-the-application-goes-in-or-out-of-focus))

- Web: Fixed skipping WebGPU context initialization if WebGPU is disabled in the build.
    (UUM-86045)

- Web: Fixed the UncaughtReference error for the diagnostics_icon in the Web Diagnostics Overlay in mobile browser.
    (UUM-83001)

- Web: Fixed web browser to not hang when using Autoconnect Profiler with Build and Run, when the Unity project is set to log large amounts of text at web page startup. Note however that there will still exist a platform-specific limitation that only about 45000 log messages can be printed back-to-back at web page startup, or otherwise the message send queue gets full. If more than 45000 log messages need to be printed back to the Editor, they should be done at page runtime after PlayerConnection has initialized, to avoid this WebSocket limitation.
    ([UUM-79682](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-player-hangs-on-first-frame-when-autoconnect-profiler-is-enabled-and-large-amount-of-profiler-data-is-buffered-before-the-first-frame))

- Web: Improved error message in abort handler.
    ([UUM-83890](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-unclear-error-when-gzip-compressed-data-or-webassembly-dont-have-correct-http-headers))

- WebGL: Fix choppy video playback when using more than one Render Texture to play a video in Linear Color Space.
    ([UUM-79894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/only-the-first-video-in-webgl-plays-smoothly-when-linear-color-space-is-used))

- WebGL: Fixed video playing issue in WebGL when another video was still loading in Firefox.
    ([UUM-79406](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/av1-videos-do-not-play-in-webgl-when-another-video-is-still-loading-and-firefox-browser-is-used))

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Enabled stencil only views of depth RenderTextures.

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fix Compile and Show Shader for WebGPU shaders.

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fixed a data race issue with copying and uploading textures.

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fixed AsyncGPUReadback for textures when request format is specified.
    (UUM-85988)

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fixed mip map generation for textures with an unfilterable texture format.

- Windows: Fixed an issue where change in the default icon isn't refreshed by the Windows Explorer when re-building a project into the previously used build folder.
    ([UUM-71022](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-the-default-icon-does-not-change-the-executables-icon-when-re-building-the-project))

- XR: Added back in support for X64 specific Editor plugins

- XR: Addressing the Meta Core SDK not loading when attempting to play in editor over Oculus Link.
    ([UUM-71393](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-input-is-not-registered-and-headset-view-is-headlocked-after-entering-play-mode-with-meta-xr-sdk-on-6000-dot-0-0b16-and-higher))




#### Preview of Final 6000.1.0a5 Package changes

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.2d.animation: [10.1.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.animation@10.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [10.1.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.animation@10.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.2d.common: [9.0.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.common@9.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [9.0.7](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.common@9.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.2d.spriteshape: [10.0.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.spriteshape@10.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [10.0.7](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.spriteshape@10.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.2d.tilemap.extras: [4.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.tilemap.extras@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.tilemap.extras@4.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.cinemachine: [2.10.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.10.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.ide.rider: [3.0.31](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ide.rider@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.0.34](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ide.rider@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.inputsystem: [1.11.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.11//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.11.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.11//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.localization: [1.5.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.localization@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.5.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.localization@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.mobile.notifications: [2.3.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.mobile.notifications@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.mobile.notifications@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.analytics: [6.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.analytics@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.analytics@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.cloudcode: [2.7.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloudcode@2.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.8.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloudcode@2.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.splines: [2.6.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.6//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.7.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.visualscripting: [1.9.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualscripting@1.9//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.9.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualscripting@1.9//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.oculus: [4.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@4.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@4.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.openxr: [1.12.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.13.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.transport: [2.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.transport@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.transport@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.deployment: [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.deployment.api: [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment.api@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment.api@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64: [2.0.9](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.10](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux-x86_64: [2.0.9](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.10](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux-x86_64: [2.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux-x86_64: [2.0.9](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.10](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux-x86_64: [1.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux-x86_64@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux-x86_64@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.multiplayer: [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.multiplayer@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.multiplayer@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

**Packages added**

- [com.unity.services.moderation@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.moderation@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

**Packages deprecated**

- com.unity.live-capture - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.sequences - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.scripting.python - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.scripting.python.windows - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.scripting.python.macos - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.scripting.python.linux - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."