### Known Issues in 6000.1.0a9

- Asset - Database: Crash on MonoBehaviour::Transfer<GenerateTypeTreeTransfer> when the XR Interaction Toolkit Sample Assets are updated
    ([UUM-76934](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-monobehaviour-transfer-when-the-xr-interaction-toolkit-sample-assets-are-updated))

- Asset - Database: LOD Group renderers incorrectly retain their asset path when instantiated using InstantiateAsync
    ([UUM-71809](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lod-group-renderers-incorrectly-retain-their-asset-path-when-instantiated-using-instantiateasync))

- Asset - Database: OnAfterDeserialize is not called when Prefabs are instantiated using InstantiateAsync
    ([UUM-71810](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onafterdeserialize-is-not-called-when-prefabs-are-instantiated-using-instantiateasync))

- Audio Authoring: Audio Source clip is not audible when exceeding a high number of active Audio Sources
    ([UUM-91256](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-source-clip-is-not-audible-when-exceeding-a-high-number-of-active-audio-sources))

- Audio Authoring: Fatal Error "Callback registration failed. Increase kMaxCallback." when playing multiple random audio sources rapidly
    ([UUM-82788](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fatal-error-callback-registration-failed-increase-kmaxcallback-dot-when-playing-multiple-random-audio-sources-rapidly))

- Build Settings Window: GetActiveBuildProfile can only be called from the main thread crash and error when switching from Windows to Android
    ([UUM-91151](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getactivebuildprofile-can-only-be-called-from-the-main-thread-crash-and-error-when-switching-from-windows-to-android-2))

- DirectX12: Allocated graphics memory does not get released when the Editor is out of focus while using D3D12 graphics API
    ([UUM-86354](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/allocated-graphics-memory-does-not-get-released-when-the-editor-is-out-of-focus-while-using-d3d12-graphics-api))

- DirectX12: Crash on GfxDeviceD3D12Base::DrawBuffersCommon when opening a project after changing the Graphics API to DirectX12
    ([UUM-77757](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gfxdeviced3d12base-drawbufferscommon-when-opening-a-project-after-changing-the-graphics-api-to-directx12))

- DirectX12: Crash on GfxDeviceD3D12Base::DrawBuffersCommon when selecting the “Cloud Layer“ option in Visual Environment component
    ([UUM-75220](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gfxdeviced3d12base-drawbufferscommon-when-selecting-the-cloud-layer-option-in-visual-environment-component))

- DirectX12: The Camera does not render correctly when the Camera.Rect() is changed and HDR is enabled and DX12 graphics API is selected
    ([UUM-86917](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-camera-does-not-render-correctly-when-the-camera-dot-rect-is-changed-and-hdr-is-enabled-and-dx12-graphics-api-is-selected))

- Editor: Fix `Application.cloudProjectId` returning incorrect Id when using build profiles with player setting overrides.
    ([UUM-90426](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-cloud-connection-id-is-incorrect-when-using-build-profile-with-player-setting-overrides))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a10.*

- Editor: Fixed a crash that could occur on macOS when operations requiring a progress bar occurred in rapid succession.
    ([UUM-89067](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-overridingparameterpreparer-onpreparevector-when-repeatedly-saving-changes-made-to-a-shader-graph))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a10.*

- Environment Effects: Visible light glares appear on GameObjects when a Volumetric Clouds effect is added to the Sky and Fog Volume
    ([UUM-74923](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/visible-light-glares-appear-on-gameobjects-when-a-volumetric-clouds-effect-is-added-to-the-sky-and-fog-volume))

- Kernel: Optimized JobHandle.CombineDependencies\(\) to reduce cost and avoid scheduling batched jobs. This allows for code that combines dependencies frequently to submit larger batches which improves performance.
    (UUM-86151)    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a10.*

- License: Editor exits Play mode when another project is being created using Unity Hub 3.8.0-beta.1
    ([UUM-68141](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-exits-play-mode-when-another-project-is-being-created-using-unity-hub-3-dot-8-0-beta-dot-1))

- Metal: Player hangs when re-focusing the Player window after switching to a window that covers the Player window
    ([UUM-67400](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-hangs-when-re-focusing-the-player-window-after-switching-to-a-window-that-covers-the-player-window))

- Metal: [iOS] App crashes with out of memory exception in UnityGfxDeviceWorker when starting the app
    ([UUM-55488](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-app-crashes-with-out-of-memory-exception-in-unitygfxdeviceworker-when-starting-the-app))

- Optimization: Average FPS in Play Mode degradation on a newly created BiRP project when it's upgraded from 2020.3.48f1 to a newer Editor version
    ([UUM-89979](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/average-fps-in-play-mode-degradation-on-a-newly-created-birp-project-when-its-upgraded-from-2020-dot-3-48f1-to-a-newer-editor-version))

- Packman: Unable to install ProBuilder package when project is located in an external FAT32/exFAT drive
    ([UUM-86351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-install-probuilder-package-when-project-is-located-in-an-external-fat32-slash-exfat-drive))

- Packman: [windows only] Switching Project when importing complete project does not import all assets and project opens incomplete
    ([UUM-88051](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/switching-project-when-importing-complete-project-does-not-import-all-assets-and-project-opens-incomplete))

- Scene Management: Crash on MergePrefabChanges when dragging a Prefab GameObject into the Project window
    ([UUM-76799](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mergeprefabchanges-when-dragging-a-prefab-gameobject-into-the-project-window))

- Scene Management: Crash on Transform::SetParent when duplicating a Prefab in the Hierarchy
    ([UUM-73287](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-transform-setparent-when-duplicating-a-prefab-in-the-hierarchy))

- Scene Management: Not Saving Modified Scene When Exiting Runtime
    ([UUM-78018](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/not-saving-modified-scene-when-exiting-runtime))

- Scene Management: [MacOS] Crash on [NSApplication endModalSession:] when saving while Play Mode is loading
    ([UUM-87930](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-crash-on-nsapplication-endmodalsession-when-saving-while-play-mode-is-loading))

- Scene View: Can not navigate through the Scene view when using a drawing tablet
    ([UUM-90436](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/can-not-navigate-through-the-scene-view-when-using-a-drawing-tablet))

- Texture: Sprite Atlas Override for iOS setting remains disabled when saving its change to enabled
    ([UUM-90066](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-atlas-override-for-ios-setting-remains-disabled-when-saving-its-change-to-enabled))

- uGUI: TMP Input Field is moving Text and Caret UI positions for each new line when 'Auto Size' and 'Multi Line Newline' are used 
    ([UUM-89963](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-input-field-is-moving-text-and-caret-ui-positions-for-each-new-line-when-auto-size-and-multi-line-newline-are-used))

- Universal RP: "undeclared identifier '_FOVEATED_RENDERING_NON_UNIFORM_RASTER" error is thrown when the "FoveatedRenderingKeywords.hlsl" file is not included in a custom shader and the Rendering Path is set to Forward+
    ([UUM-67560](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undeclared-identifier-foveated-rendering-non-uniform-raster-error-is-thrown-when-the-foveatedrenderingkeywords-dot-hlsl-file-is-not-included-in-a-custom-shader-and-the-rendering-path-is-set-to-forward-plus))

- Universal RP: Errors are thrown and the Scene view is not rendered when Rendering Path is set to Deferred
    ([UUM-63928](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-and-the-scene-view-is-not-rendered-when-rendering-path-is-set-to-deferred))

- Vulkan: Crash on vkNegotiateLoaderLayerInterfaceVersion when rendering a specific particle system with an Emission Rate over Time of 35 or more using Vulkan
    ([UUM-91203](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-vknegotiateloaderlayerinterfaceversion-when-rendering-a-specific-particle-system-with-an-emission-rate-over-time-of-35-or-more-using-vulkan))

- 



### New 6000.1.0a9 Entries since 6000.1.0a8

#### Features

- 2D: Added a TileSet asset.

- GI: Added bicubic sampling support for lightmaps in HDRP and URP, which can greatly improve the appearance of low resolution lightmaps. To enable, navigate to Project Settings &gt; Graphics &gt; Use Bicubic Lightmap Sampling.

- HDRP: Added Variable Rate Shading support for Custom Passes.

- UI Elements: Added a "Mask64Field" control which supports a UInt64 \(64-bit unsigned integer\) allowing up to 64 flags, identical in behaviour as the existing "MaskField" control.

- Universal RP: Added Deferred+ rendering mode.

- WebGL: Changed compression format from gzip to brotli.



#### Improvements

- 2D: Improved performance of Tilemap.SetTile APIs.

- Documentation: Improved and expanded the scripting API documentation for MeshRenderer.

- Documentation: Improved documentation for Texures.desiredTextureMemory, Texture.targetTextureMemory and Texture.totalTextureMemory.

- Documentation: Improved documentation of Scene class, and add missing documentation for Scene.isSubScene and Scene.handle.

- Documentation: Improved the documentation for GraphicsBufferHandle.

- Editor: Moved Undo History to Window/General from the Edit menu.

- Editor: Renamed "Assets/Extract From Prefab" to "Assets/Extract Material SubAsset" and disabled this menu item when no asset is selected in the Project window.

- Editor: Reorganized the Assets menu for improved navigation.

- Editor: Reorganized the Edit menu for improved navigation.

- HDRP: Improved water sample by adding a cave scene using caustics and deformation texture.

- iOS: When using Input System package for input handling iOS specific input event handler will show up in Unity memory profiler as InputHandler object.

- Kernel: Optimized job system scheduling for better scaling as the thread count increases.<br>
    jonathan-meaney
    (UUM-90028)

- Kernel: Optimized thread waking when jobs complete to reduce job system overhead.
    (UUM-88971)

- Profiler: Added documentation for ProfilerCounterOptions.

- UI Toolkit: Added support for using commas in UxmlAttribute list items. Commas are encoded as `%2C` to avoid conflicts with list item separators.

- VFX Graph: Improved shader generation time by implementing a local include template cache.

- VFX Graph: Skip generating DXR related code when Ray Tracing is not enabled in the output.



#### API Changes

- Editor: Added: Introduce IPostprocessLaunch.OnPostprocessLaunch callback, which called after Unity's attempt to launch the application.
    (UUM-90453)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a9.*

- Editor: Deprecated: PVRTC texture compression has been marked as deprecated for Unity 6.1. Enum values `UnityEditor.TextureCompressionFormat.PVRTC`, `UnityEditor.MobileTextureSubtarget.PVRTC` and `Unity.Android.Types.AndroidTextureSupport.PVRTC` will throw warnings if used and will be removed in a later release.<br>
    Also deprecated PVRTC_* types in `UnityEditor.TextureImporterFormat`, `UnityEngine.TextureFormat` and *_PVRTC_* types in `UnityEngine.Experimental.Rendering.GraphicsFormat`.

- Editor: Obsoleted: Obsoleted API in RenderPipeline: Render \(array version\), BeginFrameRendering and EndFrameRendering. More optimised alternative already exists.

- Graphics: Removed: Obsolete Camera.RenderRequest APIs have been removed, use Camera.SubmitRenderRequest instead.

- Universal RP: Changed: "_FORWARD_PLUS" shader keyword renamed to "_CLUSTER_LIGHT_LOOP".



#### Changes

- Linux: Linux toolchain package is now automatically installed only when the project switches to Linux Standalone or Dedicated Server target.
    ([UUM-75804](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/toolchain-win-linux-x64-package-is-always-automatically-installed-when-the-used-editor-installation-has-the-linux-dedicated-server-support-component))

- Plugins: .framework plugins will be imported with "Add to Embedded Binaries" flag enabled by default.
    (UUM-84614)

- Plugins: .xcframeworks will be imported with "Add to Embedded Binaries" flag enabled if they contain .frameworks or dynamic libraries.
    (UUM-84614)



#### Fixes

- 2D: Fixed a crash GetSpriteAtlasDependenciesFromBinary when opening a project.
    ([UUM-90217](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-getspriteatlasdependenciesfrombinary-when-opening-specific-project))

- 2D: Fixed an issue by removing references to OverlapBoxNonAlloc and other *NonAlloc methods, which have been marked as \[ExcludeFromDocs\].

- 2D: Fixed performance regression when renaming Sprite in Sprite Editor Window.
    (UUM-90167)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a6.*

- 2D: Fixed performance regression with Tilemap.SetTile.
    (UUM-85203)

- 2D: Fixed renderer features not working with Rendergraph2D.
    ([UUM-86922](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/post-processing-render-features-using-render-graph-do-not-work-when-urp-2d-renderer-is-used-and-render-graph-enabled))

- Android: Fixed an issue where Logcat package could not query Unity to determine on which device the application is launched.

- Android: Updated BundleTool to version 1.17.2.
    (UUM-90609)

- Asset Import: Fixed FBX import errors when importing models using the IndexToDirect format for normals.
    (UUM-74806)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a3.*

- Documentation: Changed the description of each system language to be more descriptive, for the benefit of individual pages and tool tips.

- Editor: Fixed a race condition that caused the Editor to enter an infinite import loop.
    (UUM-86437)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a2.*

- Editor: Fixed an Editor crash on startup when build profile is activated in OnPostprocessAllAssets\(\).
    (UUM-90128)

- Editor: Fixed an issue by disallowing invalid chars in build profile name.
    (UUM-88953)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a7.*

- Editor: Fixed an issue by modifying crunched cubemap serialization and deserialization to eliminate empty space from binary asset on disk.
    (UUM-82605)

- Editor: Fixed an issue by setting a minimum width for split panes in the UI Toolkit Debugger.
    ([UUM-87428](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-debugger-has-no-minimum-size-for-its-tabs))

- Editor: Fixed an issue causing double restart prompts when toggling virtual texturing on Windows.
    (UUM-87735)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the active input handling could be set to "InputSystem" and "Both" without indicating an error.

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the error messages in dialogs were cut off when using high DPI monitors on MS Windows.
    ([UUM-87585](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incomplete-warning-when-native-platform-backends-for-the-new-input-system-are-not-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where there was not a common list of invalid characters.

- Editor: Fixed an issue where using `BatchRendererGroupDummyRenderer` as an IntermediateRenderer could result in reading and writing invalid memory.
    (UUM-90449)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a1.*

- Editor: Fixed C\# script imported leading to missing documentation.
    ([UUM-87334](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/c-number-script-help-button-leads-to-missing-documentation))

- Editor: Fixed for column ordering in ImportActivityWindow when columns are deactivated.

- Editor: Fixed help button tooltip text for some components.

- Editor: Fixed importing of DDS files using the DDPF_LUMINANCE format.
    ([UUM-87535](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unknown-format-is-thrown-when-importing-dds-files))

- Editor: Fixed Issue with Unity Multiplayer Clone Editors had pop up windows that were not supposed to be draggable.

- Editor: Fixed searchpropositions for Hierarchy t:prefab.
    ([UUM-86550](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/filter-block-is-incorrectly-named-game-objects-when-the-components-prefabs-is-selected-in-the-global-search-tool))

- Editor: Fixed serialization issue with inline mapping length exceeds hardcoded limit.
    ([UUM-83673](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-parse-file-error-is-thrown-when-opening-a-specific-project-with-custom-build-profiles))

- Editor: Fixed the issue where licensing modals was printing an error message in Editor console:<br>
    "Layout update is struggling to process current layout".
    (UUM-86833)

- Editor: Fixed the wrong GameObject name in the OcclusionEffect URP sample.
    ([UUM-71878](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-package-samples-typo-on-gameobject-movinigcube))

- Editor: Fixed UnityWbRequest.error returning success after querying texture even though texture creation failed.
    ([UUM-90140](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-unitywebrequest-dot-result-of-the-unitywebrequesttexture-dot-gettexture-method-changes-when-accessing-unitywebrequest-dot-downloadhandler-texture))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue by making sure resolve surface iss linked to surface in OpenGL Core when using MSAA.
    ([UUM-83898](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-samples-multiple-attempting-to-resolve-render-surface-and-other-errors-appear-when-setting-quality-pipeline-asset))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue by making sure resolve surface iss linked to surface in OpenGL Core when using MSAA.
    ([UUM-86641](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/opengl-black-game-view-when-anti-aliasing-msaa-and-render-graph-are-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue where there was not an error in logged if enableReadWrite was set to `false` when using a RTHandle as raytraceing output target.
    ([UUM-88995](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undefined-behavior-on-dispatchrays-renderpass-with-invalid-rthandle-config))<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a5.*

- Graphics: Fixed Variable shading rate related command buffer API and shading rate image API documentation added.

- HDRP: Fixed color pyramid sampling when distortion is enabled after the distortion pass.
    ([UUM-75319](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-custom-pass-before-post-process))

- HDRP: Removed the FixAll button from the High Definition Render Pipeline \(HDRP\) Wizard when no automated fix is available.
    ([UUM-84977](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fix-all-button-does-not-disappear-after-applying-fixes-when-setting-up-dxr))

- IL2CPP: Fixed MethodAccessException when using the the AsyncOperation&lt;T&gt;.Result value as a generic interface.
    (UUM-86794)

- iOS: Fixed an incorrect Entitlements file in the exported Xcode project.
    (UUM-90084)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a8.*

- iOS: Fixed crash when requesting HDR rendering but using no-graphics mode.
    (UUM-90482)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a9.*

- iOS: Fixed Entitlements file randomly disappearing on consecutive builds.
    (UUM-90160)

- macOS: Fixed Ctrl+C not caught on headless MacOS games, in turn, OnApplicationQuit does not get called.
    ([UUM-87122](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onapplicationquit-is-not-called-and-logger-debug-lines-are-missing-in-player-log-when-exiting-mac-dedicated-server))

- Mono: Fixed some corner case issues with math operations.

- Package Manager: Switch project when importing a full project asset package is fixed for mac users.
    ([UUM-87430](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-switching-project-functionality-when-importing-a-complete-project-is-broken))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where Joint gizmos would no longer follow the joint they are being displayed, during playmode.

- Physics 2D: Fixed an issue to by ensuring that Rigidbody2D.Cast correctly uses the ContactFilter2D.useTriggers or the global Physics2D.queriesHitTriggers options.
    ([UUM-87102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody2d-dot-cast-does-not-detect-collisions-when-is-trigger-property-is-enabled))

- Physics 2D: Fixed an issue when disabling a Collider2D to ensure that contacts are not destroyed before they are reported if "Callbacks On Disable" is active.
    ([UUM-89955](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerexit2d-events-are-not-triggered-when-disabling-collider-despite-callbacks-on-disable-being-enabled))

- Scripting: Added the InstantiateParameters struct. This addition provides support for local space and target scenes in `Object.InstantiateAsync`.
    ([UUM-83002](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cube-instantiated-by-the-instantiateasync-method-spawns-on-the-world-center-when-in-the-arguments-the-parent-is-passed-in))

- Shadergraph: Added issue where an unnecessary error message would be generated on non-conflicting duplicate property declarations when using multiple targets.
    ([UUM-76524](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-two-properties-with-the-same-reference-name-stencilwritemask-produce-different-hlsl-properties-logged-when-the-shader-graph-has-canvas-and-material-sub-targets))

- Shadergraph: Fixed Shader warnings in URP ShaderGraph when using the Normal From Texture node.
    ([UUM-90053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-warnings-in-urp-shadergraph-when-using-the-normal-from-texture-node))

- Shadergraph: Fixed to add a Vector4 slot in sub-graph on converting from a node.
    ([UUM-75936](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-a-sub-graph-must-have-at-least-one-output-slot-is-logged-in-console-when-converting-nodes-to-sub-graphs))

- SRP Core: Fixed VRS initialization errors. Now init may fail explicitly and must be checked by the user code.
    (UUM-89953)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a7.*

- Text: Added spacing properties to ATG.
    (UUM-90101)

- Text: Fixed a memory leak when using TextElement.
    (UUM-90728)

- Text: Fixed ATG tab support.
    (UUM-87903)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where entering play mode could break dependencies between certain UXML files.
    ([UUM-90739](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentexception-thrown-and-reference-to-template-gets-unset-when-opening-uxml-file-after-editing-referenced-template-in-play-mode))

- UI Toolkit: Improved performance for layout in UITK.
    (UUM-90732)

- UI Toolkit: \[UI Builder\] Fixed an issue where the dropdown search icon appeared next to the UI Builder's Library search, despite the search having no dropdown functionality.
    ([UUM-90081](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dropdown-search-icon-is-used-next-to-the-ui-builders-library-search-when-the-search-has-no-dropdown-functionality))

- Version Control: Fixed an issue where  the additional line breaks were not getting added to asset files when merging with UnityYAMLMerge with an extra option for user to get the line breaks by default.
    ([UUM-72934](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/additional-line-breaks-are-added-to-asset-files-when-merging-with-unityyamlmerge))

- VFX Graph: Fixed a potential crash that could occur when adding the render node of sleeping systems.
    (UUM-90698)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.1.0a7.*

- Web: Fixed an issue in `config.autoSyncPersistentDataPath` option in Unity Web.
    ([UUM-87753](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-typeerror-cannot-read-properties-of-undefined-reading-length-error-is-thrown-when-starting-the-player-when-config-dot-autosyncpersistentdatapath-is-set-to-true))

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fixed render error from shadergraph shaders with 3D textures.




#### New 6000.1.0a9 Package Changes since 6000.1.0a8

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.entities: [1.3.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.8](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.physics: [1.3.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.physics@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.8](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.physics@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.havok.physics: 1.3.5 to 1.3.8

- com.unity.entities.graphics: [1.4.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities.graphics@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities.graphics@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.authentication: [3.3.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.authentication@3.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.authentication@3.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.core: [1.13.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.core@1.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.14.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.core@1.14//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arcore: [6.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arcore@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arcore@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arfoundation: [6.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arfoundation@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arfoundation@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arkit: [6.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arkit@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arkit@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.levelplay: [8.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.levelplay@8.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [8.5.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.levelplay@8.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.multiplayer: [1.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.multiplayer@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.multiplayer@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.asset-manager-for-unity: [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.asset-manager-for-unity@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.2.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.asset-manager-for-unity@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

### Preview of Final 6000.1.0a9 Release Notes

#### Features

- 2D: Added a TileSet asset.

- 2D: Added an option to disable field editing in Sprite Editor to prevent accidental edit.

- 2D: Added the *Slice on Import* option to Slice settings to automatically re-slice Textures when Textures are reimported.

- 2D: Added UX polish to field editing in the Sprite Editor to prevent accidental edits.

- 2D: Store Slice settings for Textures of type Sprite in TextureImporter.

- Editor: Added graphics settings overrides to build profiles.

- Editor: Added support for a quality levels override in build profiles.

- Editor: Added support for Facebook Instant Games.

- Editor: Facebook Instant Games now includes default settings for targeting mobile and desktop devices that optimize for build size to reduce load times.

- GI: Added bicubic sampling support for lightmaps in HDRP and URP, which can greatly improve the appearance of low resolution lightmaps. To enable, navigate to Project Settings &gt; Graphics &gt; Use Bicubic Lightmap Sampling.

- Graphics: Added a conversion utility to convert Android Player Settings fields "Vulkan Device Allow List" and "Vulkan Device Deny List" to a "Vulkan Device Filter Lists" asset.

- Graphics: Added a new "Vulkan Device Filter Lists" asset type. Use this asset to create filters for Android Devices and to determine whether Vulkan can be enabled on the device and, if so, what the preferred graphics jobs mode would be for that device enabling runtime graphics jobs mode selection.

- Graphics: Added RayTracingAccelerationStructure.UpdateInstanceGeometry API to manually trigger a geometry acceleration structure \(BLAS\) update. Added RayTracingMode.DynamicGeometryManualUpdate to be used in conjunction with UpdateInstanceGeometry function. This mode can be configured in Renderers or specified when using RayTracingAccelerationStructure.AddInstance\(s\) functions.

- Graphics: Added the new C\# API `RayTracingAccelerationStructure.RemoveInstances`, which removes ray tracing instances from an acceleration structure based on their layer or ray tracing mode.

- Graphics: Introduce a new C\# `API RayTracingAccelerationStructure.AddInstancesIndirect` to specify ray tracing instance transformation matrices using a GraphicsBuffer.

- HDRP: Added Variable Rate Shading support for Custom Passes.

- SRP Core: Added a render graph debug setting that allows users to temporarily disable pass merging to isolate issues or investigate performance changes.

- UI Elements: Added a "Mask64Field" control which supports a UInt64 \(64-bit unsigned integer\) allowing up to 64 flags, identical in behaviour as the existing "MaskField" control.

- UI Toolkit: Improved the workflow for authoring variables in the UI Builder.

- Universal RP: Added Deferred+ rendering mode.

- URP: Added Variable Rate Shading support for Custom Passes \(ScriptableRendererFeature\).

- Version Control: Added a menu entry to 'Open in Unity Cloud' that shows the repository in the Unity Dashboard.

- Version Control: Added a merge options dialog to the merge view.

- Version Control: Added copy path and history context menu actions in all applicable menus.

- Version Control: Added diff and merge settings in Project Settings &gt; Version Control &gt; Unity Version Control Settings.

- Version Control: Added file conflict and directory conflict context menu actions to the merge view.

- Version Control: Added the ability to merge a branch or a changeset, using new context menu actions.

- WebGL: Changed compression format from gzip to brotli.

- WebGL: Created a new template to support landscape orientation on the Facebook Instant Games platform.

- WebGL: WebGPU is now officially available as one of the graphics APIs for the Web Player.

- XR: The Meta Quest Platform is now available in the Build Profiles window.



#### Improvements

- 2D: Improved performance of Tilemap.SetTile APIs.

- Asset Import: Reduced peak memory usage at the end of Asset Importing, caused by the Bumpmap material/texture check.
    (UUM-88920)

- Core: Added the ability to configure the number of asset garbage collector helper threads via command line \(-gc-helper-count N\) and via boot.config file \(gc-helper-count=N\).

- Documentation: Improved and expanded the scripting API documentation for MeshRenderer.

- Documentation: Improved documentation for Texures.desiredTextureMemory, Texture.targetTextureMemory and Texture.totalTextureMemory.

- Documentation: Improved documentation of Scene class, and add missing documentation for Scene.isSubScene and Scene.handle.

- Documentation: Improved the documentation for GraphicsBufferHandle.

- Editor: Added an array slice and mipmap info to the render graph debugger.

- Editor: Added extra validation to the render graph texture descriptor to avoid silently failing when a user tried to create  an invalid texture.

- Editor: Improved material creation for PBR Sky custom material.
    (UUM-86718)

- Editor: libcurl used by Unity updated to version 8.10.1.

- Editor: Modified the new memory leak detection warning so it correctly uses 'Settings' instead of 'Preferences' to indicate where the Leak Detection Level dropdown selector is as a path. Only for macOS editor.
    (UUM-86218)

- Editor: Moved Undo History to Window/General from the Edit menu.

- Editor: Reduced the amount of FileIO operations required when loading a DLL.
    (UUM-89089)

- Editor: Renamed "Assets/Extract From Prefab" to "Assets/Extract Material SubAsset" and disabled this menu item when no asset is selected in the Project window.

- Editor: Reorganized the Assets menu for improved navigation.

- Editor: Reorganized the Edit menu for improved navigation.

- Graphics: Added a new parameter to `ShaderConfig.cs` in URP Config to reduce shader variants of fog keywords \(FOG_EXP, FOG_EXP2, FOG_LINEAR\) by dynamic branches.

- Graphics: Added documentation for how shadow matte interacts with stencil and ray traced shadows for Unlit Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-72348](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadows-do-not-appear-on-the-material-with-a-custom-shader-which-uses-screen-space-shadow-map-in-hdrp-when-ray-traced-shadows-are-enabled))

- HDRP: Improved water sample by adding a cave scene using caustics and deformation texture.

- HDRP: Wizard - Simplified the list of validations for IRenderPipelineGraphicsSettings.
    (UUM-77499)

- IL2CPP: Do not emit incremental GC write barriers for writes to function pointer fields

- IL2CPP: mdb symbol files will no longer be read during il2cpp player builds.

- IL2CPP: Write the IL2CPP type &amp; field values are C instead of C++.

- IL2CPP: `[RequireDerived]` and `[RequireImplementors]` now mark all instance constructors of all types that they cause to be marked.

- iOS: Variants for iOS On Demand Resources have been updated with new options available in Xcode.

- iOS: When using Input System package for input handling iOS specific input event handler will show up in Unity memory profiler as InputHandler object.

- Kernel: Optimized job system scheduling for better scaling as the thread count increases.<br>
    jonathan-meaney
    (UUM-90028)

- Kernel: Optimized thread waking when jobs complete to reduce job system overhead.
    (UUM-88971)

- Package Manager: Concurrent operations made with the `UnityEditor.PackageManager.Client` class are now processed sequentially instead of failing with a concurrency error.

- Plugins: Added `IUnityGraphics.h` in the Vulkan native rendering plugin header to eliminate the hidden include dependency.
    (UUM-85979)

- Profiler: Added documentation for ProfilerCounterOptions.

- Scripting: Awaitable methods requiring to be called from MainThread now throw an InvalidOperationException in a more reliable way instead of failing on a random internal call.

- Serialization: Improved performance of reading texture data embedded in text files \(yes, text files\).

- Shadergraph: Added support for spacewarp to shadergraph.

- Shaders: Improved shader compilation logging in the player.
    ([UUM-79781](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/log-shader-compilation-does-not-give-info-on-which-shader-instance-had-a-variant-compiled))

- UI Toolkit: Added support for using commas in UxmlAttribute list items. Commas are encoded as `%2C` to avoid conflicts with list item separators.

- VFX Graph: Added a missing button in the VFX template window to quickly install learning templates.
    (UUM-85329)

- VFX Graph: Enable threaded renderqueue extraction for VFX renderers.

- VFX Graph: Improved shader generation time by implementing a local include template cache.

- VFX Graph: Improved shader source generation performance.

- VFX Graph: Improved VFX compilation time by avoiding redundant instanciation of implicit blocks.

- VFX Graph: Optimised the particle attribute layout for a smaller memory footprint.

- VFX Graph: Performance optimization on the attributes manager.

- VFX Graph: Reduced the main thread cost of `VFX.Update` by moving some transform-related operations to other threads.

- VFX Graph: Skip generating DXR related code when Ray Tracing is not enabled in the output.



#### API Changes

- Android: Deprecated: ".getLocale\(\)" has been deprecated, ".getLanguageTag\(\)" is updated replacement.

- Editor: Deprecated: PVRTC texture compression has been marked as deprecated for Unity 6.1. Enum values `UnityEditor.TextureCompressionFormat.PVRTC`, `UnityEditor.MobileTextureSubtarget.PVRTC` and `Unity.Android.Types.AndroidTextureSupport.PVRTC` will throw warnings if used and will be removed in a later release.<br>
    Also deprecated PVRTC_* types in `UnityEditor.TextureImporterFormat`, `UnityEngine.TextureFormat` and *_PVRTC_* types in `UnityEngine.Experimental.Rendering.GraphicsFormat`.

- Editor: Obsoleted: Obsoleted API in RenderPipeline: Render \(array version\), BeginFrameRendering and EndFrameRendering. More optimised alternative already exists.

- GI: Added: LightingDataAsset.SetLights\(\) which lets you overwrite the lights associated with a specific Lighting Data Asset. This can be used to change lights between baked and realtime without rebaking.
    ([UUM-78573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bake-probe-volumes-button-does-not-store-that-lights-are-baked))

- GI: Added: Lightmapping.GetLightingDataAssetForScene\(\) and Lightmapping.SetLightingDataAssetForScene\(\) which let you get or set the Lighting Data Asset associated with a particular scene.
    ([UUM-78573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bake-probe-volumes-button-does-not-store-that-lights-are-baked))

- Graphics: Obsoleted: Marked "UnityEditor.AndroidDeviceFilterData" obsolete.

- Graphics: Removed: Obsolete Camera.RenderRequest APIs have been removed, use Camera.SubmitRenderRequest instead.

- Physics: Deprecated: Rigidbody.SetDensity has been deprecated, please use Rigidbody.mass instead to achieve the same simulation behavior.

- Physics 2D: Changed: Renamed AreaEffector2D.angularDrag to AreaEffector2D.angularDamping.

- Physics 2D: Changed: Renamed AreaEffector2D.drag to AreaEffector2D.linearDamping.

- Physics 2D: Changed: Renamed BuoyancyEffector2D.angularDrag to BuoyancyEffector2D.angularDamping.

- Physics 2D: Changed: Renamed BuoyancyEffector2D.drag to BuoyancyEffector2D.linearDamping.

- Physics 2D: Changed: Renamed PointEffector2D.angularDrag to PointEffector2D.angularDamping.

- Physics 2D: Changed: Renamed PointEffector2D.drag to PointEffector2D.linearDamping.

- SRP Core: Added: Variable Rate Shading API support for \(Raster\)CommandBuffer\(s\), RenderGraph and RTHandles.<br>
    Various VRS utilities.

- Universal RP: Added: SetViewAndProjectionMatrices\(\) helper function is available within a RasterRenderPass in RenderGraph
    (UUM-87865)

- Universal RP: Changed: "_FORWARD_PLUS" shader keyword renamed to "_CLUSTER_LIGHT_LOOP".

- Web: Added: New Player setting called Enable Submodule Stripping Compatibility, off by default. Enable this setting if you intend to do submodule stripping.



#### Changes

- Android: Exposed physical camera support through the `WebCamTexture.devices` property on Android 10 and newer devices \(where available\).

- Android: Unity now uses `WindowInsetsController` and `setDecorFitsSystemWindows` APIs on Android 11 or newer versions instead of `setSystemUiVisibility` API. This affects the behavior of Unity APIs: Fullscreen Mode, Hide Navigation Bar, and Render outside safe area. The application appearance remains the same on devices using Android 10 or older compared to Android 11 or newer versions.

- Android: Update AGP to 8.72, Gradle to 8.11 and Command-Line Tools to 16.0

- Asset Import: Updated error messages for AAC audio imports when file contains 2048 samples or less.
    ([UUM-72024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dot-wav-and-ogg-audio-files-cant-be-imported-to-the-project-when-the-webgl-build-profile-is-selected))

- Editor: Embedded platforms are now visible in the platform browser.

- Editor: Minimum window width and minimum window height resolution settings are now available regardless of the Fullscreen Mode set for the application window in Android Player settings.

- Editor: Now use less-verbose version strings by default on official branches.
    ([UUM-85505](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/about-unity-window-shows-extended-version-numbers-including-staging-tag))

- Editor: Physics: Reverted a fix for small body tunnelling at high \(~200Hz\) simulation frequencies. If affected, use the recommended workaround to decrease ccd threshold to slightly under 1/4 of the half-extent of the scene's smallest object.

- Graphics: The Android Player Settings fields "Vulkan Device Allow List" and "Vulkan Device Deny List" have been made Obsolete. These are replaced by the "Vulkan Device Filter" Android Player Settings field and "Vulkan Device Filter Lists" asset type.

- Linux: Linux toolchain package is now automatically installed only when the project switches to Linux Standalone or Dedicated Server target.
    ([UUM-75804](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/toolchain-win-linux-x64-package-is-always-automatically-installed-when-the-used-editor-installation-has-the-linux-dedicated-server-support-component))

- Package: Deprecated Sequences, Live-capture, Python for Unity packages, and Cinematic feature set in Unity 6.1.

- Physics: Removed the **Enable Unified Heightmaps** options in the Physics settings because it doesn't have any effect on the TerrainCollider component since the upgrade to PhysX 4.1.
    (PHYS-394)

- Plugins: .framework plugins will be imported with "Add to Embedded Binaries" flag enabled by default.
    (UUM-84614)

- Plugins: .xcframeworks will be imported with "Add to Embedded Binaries" flag enabled if they contain .frameworks or dynamic libraries.
    (UUM-84614)

- Version Control: Automatically add UnityDirMonSyncFile rule for existing ignore.conf to avoid triggering unnecessary finding changes operation.

- Version Control: Improved the "search" edit box so it can resize when there is not enough space in the toolbar.

- Version Control: Optimized incoming changes to only reload the Package Manager when needed \(Gluon/partial workspace only for now\).

- Version Control: Optimized switching operations to only triggers the Package Manager to reinstall packages when needed.

- Version Control: Removed from the public documentation all internal APIs that were previously visible by mistake.

- Version Control: Removed support for migrating old Collaborate workspaces to Unity Version Control.

- Version Control: Replaced the "D" DevOps icon by the branching icon used in the Hub.

- Version Control: Replaced the logo of Unity in the Sign in to Unity VCS window.

- Version Control: Updated the minimum supported version to Unity 2021.3.0f1.



#### Fixes

- 2D: Fixed  case where Sprite Renderer image is changed when Mask Interaction is turned by C\# script.
    ([UUM-87780](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-renderer-image-is-changed-when-mask-interaction-is-turned-by-c-number-script))

- 2D: Fixed a crash GetSpriteAtlasDependenciesFromBinary when opening a project.
    ([UUM-90217](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-getspriteatlasdependenciesfrombinary-when-opening-specific-project))

- 2D: Fixed active buffers for overlay in Rendergraph2D.
    ([UUM-83013](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-using-stacking-cameras-with-two-different-renderer2ddata))

- 2D: Fixed an issue by removing references to OverlapBoxNonAlloc and other *NonAlloc methods, which have been marked as \[ExcludeFromDocs\].

- 2D: Fixed case where 2D Renderer Breaks When Animating Material Property with MaterialPropertyBlock.
    ([UUM-85335](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-renderer-breaks-when-animating-material-property-with-materialpropertyblock))

- 2D: Fixed clear flags when skybox is used with Renderer2D.
    ([UUM-83351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bloom-keeps-building-up-in-2d-urp-when-bloom-intensity-is-over-0-and-skybox-with-any-material-is-used))

- 2D: Fixed issue where Tile Palettes with Hexagonal Flat Top layouts are drawn incorrectly as Hexagonal Point Top layout.
    ([UUM-83525](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hexagonal-flat-top-palette-tiles-appear-rotated-90-degrees-clockwise-when-observing-the-tile-palette-window))

- 2D: Fixed light blending issues with shadows.
    ([UUM-82787](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-light-overlap-order-is-not-evaluated-when-shadows-are-being-produced-with-render-graph-compatibility-mode-disabled))

- 2D: Fixed performance regression with Tilemap.SetTile.
    (UUM-85203)

- 2D: Fixed renderer features not working with Rendergraph2D.
    ([UUM-86922](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/post-processing-render-features-using-render-graph-do-not-work-when-urp-2d-renderer-is-used-and-render-graph-enabled))

- 2D: Fixed repeated warnings appear when applying Lit Material to "SpriteRenderer" in 3D project.
    ([UUM-86948](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/repeated-warnings-appear-when-applying-lit-material-to-spriterenderer-in-3d-project))

- 2D: Fixed Sprite broken Sprite references in TextureImporter when SpriteRect are defined outside of it's texture.
    (UUM-84276)

- 2D: Fixed SrpBatcher causes all SpriteRenderers to render the same sprite when the shader is not compatible with the SrpBatcher.
    ([UUM-86937](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/srpbatcher-causes-all-spriterenderers-to-render-the-same-sprite-when-the-shader-is-not-compatible-with-the-srpbatcher))

- Accessibility: Fixed Accessibility Hierarchy Viewer empty field height issue.
    (UUM-77138)

- Accessibility: Fixed Android TalkBack touch to focus disabled nodes issue.
    (UUM-77508)

- Accessibility: Fixed text overflow when resizing Accessibility Hierarchy Viewer Inspector pane.
    ([UUM-82909](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/text-on-inspector-pane-in-hierarchy-viewer-overflows-into-hierarchy-pane))

- AI: Links were not generated in places where the NavMesh forms a ramp.
    ([UUM-78145](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmeshlinks-are-not-generated-when-using-generate-links))

- Android: Added dotnet webrequest feature for automatic internet access permission.
    ([UUM-83355](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-error-nameresolutionfailure-when-internet-access-is-set-to-auto))

- Android: Added the `BaseUnityGameActivityTheme.Translucent` theme for GameActivity.

- Android: Fixed a crash that occurs on GameActivity with Vulkan when the device is rotated during video playback launched through  `Handheld.PlayFullScreenMovie`.
    (UUM-77512)

- Android: Fixed a crash when calling UnityPlayer.UnitySendMessage from activity's onCreate method.
    ([UUM-85617](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-due-to-null-pointer-dereference-when-unityplayer-dot-unitysendmessage-is-called-in-oncreate))

- Android: Fixed an issue so that the Editor.log now contains an entry on how the application is launched. For example, `adb.exe -s "FA7A31A08307" shell am start -a android.intent.action.MAIN -c android.intent.category.LAUNCHER -f 0x10200000 -S -n "com.DefaultCompany.GameActivity/com.unity3d.player.UnityPlayerActivity"`.
    (UUM-84923)

- Android: Fixed an issue so that the Symlink Sources option will apply to .androidlib plugins. Note that .androidlib has to have a build.gradle file.
    (UUM-87008)

- Android: Fixed an issue where Logcat package could not query Unity to determine on which device the application is launched.

- Android: Fixed an issue where the custom namespace tag was missing in the exported AndroidManifest.xml.
    ([UUM-85667](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-namespace-is-removed-in-the-exported-androidmanifest-dot-xml-file-when-exporting-an-android-project-with-a-custom-manifest))

- Android: Fixed an issue where user installed certificates directly to an Android device wouldn't show up in the trusted_ca list.
    ([UUM-73839](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-error-curl-error-60-cert-verify-failed-certificate-is-not-correctly-signed-by-a-trusted-ca-unitytls-error-code-7-when-using-unitywebrequest-to-connect-to-the-server-with-a-self-signed-certificate))

- Android: Fixed FrameTimings calculation on Android when using OpenGLES graphics.
    (UUM-87325)

- Android: Fixed the Android 15 keyboard Edit Field overlapping into cutoff area.
    ([UUM-77367](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-while-in-landscape-orientation-the-mobile-input-is-bigger-than-the-keyboard-when-building-for-android-15-beta-device))

- Android: Ignore harmless warnings coming from sdkmanager - "Errors during XML parse:", "Additionally, the fallback loader failed to parse the XML."

- Android: Unity no longer sets the theme attribute for application manifest in `unityLibrary` manifest. That means there's no default theme for activities and you're responsible for applying theme to your custom activities. This is because, there's no valid default theme which can be applied for both Activity and GameActivity at the same time.
    ([UUM-80017](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-player-silently-crashes-and-the-java-dot-lang-dot-illegalstateexception-you-need-to-use-a-theme-dot-appcompat-theme-or-descendant-with-this-activity-error-is-logged-when-the-render-over-native-ui-setting-is-enabled))

- Android: Updated BundleTool to version 1.17.2.
    (UUM-90609)

- Android: Updated game frame pacing `androidx.games:games-frame-pacing` package version  to 2.1.2.
    ([UUM-77169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-player-application-freezes-and-crashes-when-minimizing-and-maximizing-the-application-via-the-recents-screen))

- Animation: Fixed an issue where calls to AnimationUtility.GetEditorCurve were leaking memory in c\#.
    (UUM-87015)

- Animation: Fixed invalid default values of animated parameters in animator controller.
    ([UUM-73614](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-animation-curve-range-is-not-applied-properly))

- Asset Import: Fixed a crash when reading from a corrupted binary artifact.
    ([UUM-83891](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-walk-when-opening-a-specific-project))

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed a corrupted library crash when users to open their project.
    ([UUM-14959](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-getassetcachedinfov2-when-opening-a-project))

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed a crash when changing the extension for plugins and scripts.
    ([UUM-83233](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/freeze-slash-crash-on-hash128tostring-when-opening-project-with-google-dot-iosresolver-dot-dll-renamed-to-google-dot-iosresolver-dot-dll-dot-removed))

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed for uninitialized field in ScriptArtifactInfo.
    (UUM-90052)

- Audio: Fixed an issue that would cause Unity to crash if you perform an undo action in the audio random container window while the audio random container is playing.
    ([UUM-83230](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-undoing-added-clips-that-are-currently-playing-in-the-audio-random-container))

- Audio: Fixed error in in editor window for the AudioRandomContainer asset when undoing removal of an list element that was done in play mode after going back to edit mode.
    ([UUM-55847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-arc-audio-clip-entry-reference-is-lost-when-undoing-edits-made-in-play-mode))

- Audio: Fixed import errors for ATRAC9/XMA on Playstation/Xbox platforms.
    (UUM-83703)

- Audio: Fixed the 3D audio pan where right audio channel is completly cutoff at specific position.
    ([UUM-82903](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-right-audio-channel-completely-cuts-out-in-a-specific-position-with-the-3d-audio-when-the-audio-should-be-playing-from-both-speaker-in-that-position))

- Build Pipeline: Added validation when building from a script to prevent use of incompatible options, such as ScriptDebugging in a non-development build.
    (UUM-78407)

- Cache Server: Fixed the crash while importing the Assets from Accelerator when it is disconnected.
    (UUM-76355)

- Documentation: Changed the description of each system language to be more descriptive, for the benefit of individual pages and tool tips.

- Documentation: Ensure that the scripting API docs distinguish between "Classes" and "Structs" in the hierarchy.

- Documentation: Improved EventInterestAttribute documentation by specifying what happens with event types that are not part of an EventInterestAttribute argument.
    ([UUM-79521](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/eventinterestattribute-does-not-filter-all-other-events-when-clickevent-is-specified))

- Documentation: Updated ScriptableObject and ScriptableSingleton documentation.
    ([UUM-84568](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/you-may-not-pass-in-objects-that-are-already-persistent-error-is-thrown-when-calling-save-on-scriptablesingleton-inside-onvalidate))

- DX12: Fixed a crash that can happen when opening a project when ray tracing effects are enabled in HDRP.
    ([UUM-87329](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-d3d12raytracingshaderruntimedata-gatherraytracingglobalinputbuffers-when-opening-a-specific-project))

- Editor: Added additional check to GraphicsSettings if URP or HDRP asset is a missing type.
    ([UUM-79997](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-nullreferenceexception-error-is-thrown-when-trying-to-add-tags-and-layers-when-urp-settings-are-present-in-the-project-with-a-broken-universalrp-asset))

- Editor: Added support for sprite secondary textures to uGui Image and CanvasRenderer.
    ([UUM-73615](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-light-mask-is-misaligned-when-using-sprite-atlas))

- Editor: Adding an 'Include all scripts' checkbox option to the export window allows users to choose whether to include all project scripts in the export list. This serves as the initial step before addressing the script dependency issue.
    ([UUM-46345](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/items-that-are-not-referenced-in-scene-are-selected-when-exporting-scenes-package))

- Editor: Clarify background-size documentation regarding animation.
    ([UUM-86426](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-background-size-property-is-not-fully-animatable))

- Editor: Disable SRP batcher on the AssetImportWorker.
    ([UUM-77344](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-previews-in-the-project-window-sometimes-show-incorrectly))

- Editor: Do not accumulate vertical/horizontal scroll deltas for IMGUI events being triggered from native code.
    (UUM-79079)

- Editor: Ensure that Dock Tabs in WindowLayouts, of which that are supposed to be static are not meant to be dragged, are also prevented from closing as well.
    (UUM-90111)

- Editor: F-key functionality restored, and menu items enable/disable correctly.
    ([UUM-83883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ubuntu-cant-type-the-letter-f))

- Editor: Fixed 'Open Download Page' in the platform browser/Build Profile window leads to insecure download for editor not installed through Unity Hub.
    (UUM-84171)

- Editor: Fixed a background color for focused assets in Project window.
    ([UUM-86167](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-selector-disappears-in-the-project-window-when-selecting-anything-in-the-inspector-window))

- Editor: Fixed a bug in MinMaxSlider that could make it oscillate and generate layout exceptions.
    (UUM-84683)

- Editor: Fixed a crach with GRD and GPU Occlusion culling.
    ([UUM-83152](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gfxdeviced3d11base-drawbuffersbatchmode-when-rendering-the-scene-view))

- Editor: Fixed a crash caused by a \(rare\) failure to initialize NetworkListManager COM interface.
    (UUM-83823)

- Editor: Fixed a crash on mdb_txn_begin when activating any of the Virtual Players.
    ([UUM-87484](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mdb-txn-begin-when-activating-any-of-the-virtual-players))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that occurred during Multiplayer Role Stripping when transitioning across scenes with Do Not Destroy On Load Game Objects containing components with both server and client Multiplayer Roles.

- Editor: Fixed a crash that occurred during Multiplayer Role Stripping when using scenes that contained Do Not Destroy On Load components.
    (MTTB-533)

- Editor: Fixed a crash when the UI option "Remove unused properties" is clicked on the default material.
    ([UUM-61599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-crash-on-material-removeunusedproperties-when-removing-unused-material-properties))

- Editor: Fixed a GPU crash guard in case of wrong custom shader.
    (UUM-87774)

- Editor: Fixed a Linux crash on right click in the middle of a window drag.
    ([UUM-82814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-on-containerwindow-togglemaximize-when-clicking-rmb-while-moving-window-inside-the-editor))

- Editor: Fixed a missing icon for the "Edit Light Probes" overlay in the Scene view and fixed the toggle.
    ([UUM-83379](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/overlay-menu-has-edit-light-probes-overlay-with-missing-icon-and-no-effect-when-in-edit-light-probe-group-mode))

- Editor: Fixed a mouse icons in the Shortcut Helper Bar issue.

- Editor: Fixed a null reference exception on macOS when modifying textures to mark them as normal maps through the NormalMap setting dialog.
    ([UUM-80063](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missingreferenceexception-after-clicking-fix-now-on-normalmap-settings))

- Editor: Fixed a null reference that would occur when converting Inspector Preview to a floating window.
    ([UUM-79366](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-error-is-logged-in-console-when-converting-inspectors-preview-to-floating-window))

- Editor: Fixed a performance issue with the Linux editor when using high ulimit file descriptor counts.
    ([UUM-85386](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-low-project-loading-speed-when-using-ubuntu-24-dot-10))

- Editor: Fixed Additional Compiler argument not updating when switching tabs in Player Settings window or when selecting different platforms in Build Settings window.
    ([UUM-66839](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/additional-compiler-argument-is-not-displayed-in-the-project-settings-android-settings-tab-if-other-than-android-platform-is-selected-in-the-build-settings))

- Editor: Fixed ambient probe not being updated when changing its intensity when running in play mode with static batching and GPU resident drawer enabled.
    ([UUM-86959](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/environment-lighting-does-not-change-when-changing-its-properties-in-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed an assertion asserts being spammed in the console when Maximum Reflection Probe count was higher than 64 \(HDRP\).
    ([UUM-86779](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-assertion-printed-when-maximum-reflection-probe-count-is-higher-than-64-due-to-k-maxcubereflectionsonscreen-when-raytracing-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed an Editor crash on startup when build profile is activated in OnPostprocessAllAssets\(\).
    (UUM-90128)

- Editor: Fixed an error that caused terrain layer map corruption and console errors when painting with a global mipmap limit set.
    ([UUM-55985](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-layers-are-drawn-as-black-rectangular-splotches-on-a-terrain-when-the-terrain-splatmap-mip-levels-in-the-editor-and-on-the-gpu-are-mismatched-due-to-the-global-mipmap-limit-being-set-to-any-option-less-than-full-resolution))

- Editor: Fixed an incorrect label for the culling mask in the Built-in Render Pipeline's camera inspector.
    (UUM-87404)

- Editor: Fixed an issue by modifying crunched cubemap serialization and deserialization to eliminate empty space from binary asset on disk.
    (UUM-82605)

- Editor: Fixed an issue by moving the registration of the SceneViewMotion and RectSelection shortcut contexts to the OnEnable method of the Scene view.
    ([UUM-86183](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-view-freezes-when-nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-in-a-delaycall))

- Editor: Fixed an issue by no longer showing locale info message.
    ([UUM-74127](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-autolocale-current-locale-expects-c-but-got-error-is-thrown-when-starting-a-project))

- Editor: Fixed an issue by preventing a call for GUI Repaint when in the middle of Building.
    ([UUM-78811](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tlsf-free-when-building-on-a-specific-project))

- Editor: Fixed an issue by preventing a call for GUI Repaint when in the middle of Building.
    (UUM-83683)

- Editor: Fixed an issue by setting a minimum width for split panes in the UI Toolkit Debugger.
    ([UUM-87428](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-debugger-has-no-minimum-size-for-its-tabs))

- Editor: Fixed an issue by stop using recursion to collect information about profiler samplers because it can lead to a Stack Overflow.
    ([UUM-79067](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/silent-crash-when-loading-profiler-binary-information-file))

- Editor: Fixed an issue causing double restart prompts when toggling virtual texturing on Windows.
    (UUM-87735)

- Editor: Fixed an issue that tree wireframe was incorrectly rendered outside of Scene view when editing a tree.
    ([UUM-82833](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/branch-editing-tools-draw-flashing-lines-with-black-backgrounds-in-editor-ui-windows))

- Editor: Fixed an issue to maintain consistency between different font sizes in the Hierarchy and Scene view windows.
    (UUM-78943)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Android build profiles with player settings overrides were not behaving based on the value of the scripting backed setting of the build profile, but instead were behaving based on the global/project settings player setting value.
    (UUM-85834)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where assemblies were not included in a build when using DEVELOPMENT_BUILD constraint.
    (UUM-84208)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where horizontal scrolling would not work when using a trackpad gesture.
    ([UUM-84867](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-explorer-window-cant-be-scrolled-horizontally-by-using-a-trackpad-gesture-when-there-is-no-vertical-scrollbar))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where it was no longer possible to hide GameView's toolbar via editor mode.
    ([UUM-85706](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/it-is-not-possible-to-hide-the-toolbar-of-the-game-window-when-observed-in-2022-dot-2-or-later-streams))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Occlusion baking parameters could be set to negative values.
    ([UUM-84378](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/occlusions-fields-can-be-set-to-negative-numbers))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Screen Space Shadows did not work on Decals.
    ([UUM-81517](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-space-decals-stop-receiving-shadows-when-screen-space-shadows-is-enabled-and-rendering-path-is-set-to-forward-or-forwads-plus))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where sometimes the Editor Tools system would not refresh when the selection changes while the Inspector window is locked.
    (UUM-54858)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the active input handling could be set to "InputSystem" and "Both" without indicating an error.

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the base class for a derived type without the \[Serializable\] tag was getting stripped during a player build.
    ([UUM-71116](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-in-pthread-kill-when-running-the-built-application-that-has-unity-editor-scripting-symbol-in-conditional-compilation))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the cursor is frozen in the Game view when the "Input System Package \(New\)" input handling is used and "UnityEngine.CursorMode" is set to "ForceSoftware".
    ([ISXB-986](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cursor-is-frozen-in-the-game-view-when-the-input-system-package-new-input-handling-is-used-and-unityengine-dot-cursormode-is-set-to-forcesoftware))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the default humanoid in the animation preview window would be pink when the auto option was selected.
    (UUM-84489)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the editor could occasionally crash when exiting the editor with the Input System package included and the Active Input Handling is set to Both or Input System.
    ([UUM-10774](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-inputdeviceioctl-when-closing-unity-editor))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the editor would incorrectly mark some objects as dirty in some cases.
    (UUM-83944)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the error messages in dialogs were cut off when using high DPI monitors on MS Windows.
    ([UUM-87585](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incomplete-warning-when-native-platform-backends-for-the-new-input-system-are-not-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Export window did not maintain initial selection after selecting different items in the Project Browser.
    (UUM-82656)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the items in the Window menu were not categorised and ordered alphabetically very good.
    (UUM-85947)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Progress Bar was misreporting the cause of Editor hangs in some cases.
    (UUM-79678)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the restart editor prompt for Graphics Jobs Mode appeared when switching between Windows and other platforms.
    (UUM-83947)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the show read only properties would not work correctly.
    (UUM-84654)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the TextureImporter "Alpha From Grayscale" and non-default Swizzle settings would have no effect when used with R16 grayscale source images.
    (UUM-75584)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Tooltip windows did not have a title on Linux.
    ([UUM-83763](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-tooltips-have-an-unset-title-which-causes-the-inability-to-modify-tooltip-behavior-on-window-managers))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where there was not a common list of invalid characters.

- Editor: Fixed an issue where toggling the Incremental GC or active input handling player settings and then restarting the editor didn't result in the new setting taking effect.
    (UUM-85422)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Unity crashed when navigating to the previous line in a Multiline TextField using the Advanced Text Generator \(ATG\) after adding an empty newline.
    (UUM-88965)

- Editor: Fixed build profile virtual texturing issues:<br>
    1. Updating the player setting value didn't get serialized to the asset file.<br>
    2. Toggling the virtual texture player setting for an inactive profile still showed the restart editor prompt.<br>
    3. Even after restarting the editor, we didn't update EditorOnlyVirtualTextureState.json that the PlayerSetting methods used as the source of truth for the setting, which resulted in a subsequent restart prompt appearing as the project was opening after the initial restart.
    (UUM-77905)

- Editor: Fixed Build profile window refreshed every frame on Android.
    (UUM-83850)

- Editor: Fixed C\# script imported leading to missing documentation.
    ([UUM-87334](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/c-number-script-help-button-leads-to-missing-documentation))

- Editor: Fixed console logs not being cleared on recompile if Clear on Recompile option is enabled.
    ([UUM-73031](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-console-window-is-not-cleared-when-scripts-are-recompiled-and-the-clear-on-recompile-option-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed Context Menu not updating in the Shortcuts manager when resolving a Binding Conflict.
    ([UUM-84760](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-context-menu-is-not-updated-in-the-shortcuts-menu-when-resolving-a-binding-conflict))

- Editor: Fixed corrupted Font crashing the editor when opened in FontAssetCreator.
    ([UUM-78705](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-textcore-fontengine-getfontfaces-slash-errors-are-thrown-when-reopening-the-font-asset-creator-when-a-specific-font-is-selected-as-the-source-font))

- Editor: Fixed crash that would occur due to memory corruption in the Burst domain after logging a warning to the Editor console.
    ([UUM-78956](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-unload-thread-main-when-reloading-scripts-after-switching-to-debug-mode))

- Editor: Fixed debug rendering error when rebaking APV with disk streaming enabled.
    (UUM-73635)

- Editor: Fixed decal projector material creation.
    (UUM-87642)

- Editor: Fixed duplicate separators appearing in the game object hierarchy menu.
    ([UUM-83272](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-separators-in-hierarchy-light-context-menu))

- Editor: Fixed Editor errors caused when "RGB + 1-bit Alpha Compressed ETC2 4 bits" compression is used.
    ([UUM-65395](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-libetc-init-when-changing-webgl-texture-format-to-rgb-plus-1-bit-alpha-compressed-etc2-4-bits))

- Editor: Fixed EditorApplication.isFocused returning false in Play mode.
    ([UUM-83091](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorapplication-dot-isfocused-returns-false-when-entering-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed for 'Recursive serialization is not allowed for threaded serialization' when the build profile context instance is created in a serialization callback.
    (UUM-84096)

- Editor: Fixed for column ordering in ImportActivityWindow when columns are deactivated.

- Editor: Fixed help button tooltip text for some components.

- Editor: Fixed importing of DDS files using the DDPF_LUMINANCE format.
    ([UUM-87535](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unknown-format-is-thrown-when-importing-dds-files))

- Editor: Fixed Inter not being created at runtime issue.
    ([UUM-79518](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-is-not-visible-when-displayed-in-runtime))

- Editor: Fixed issue where Scene View navigation would not function properly when using a pen tablet as the input device.
    ([UUM-77768](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-scene-view-is-not-rotating-when-pressing-the-binded-rmb-button-on-a-drawing-tablet-and-moving-the-drawing-pen))

- Editor: Fixed issue with emojis in TextField on mobile.
    ([UUM-72689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-writing-text-or-adding-more-emojis-after-an-emoji-in-the-inputfield-causes-the-first-emoji-to-disappear-and-be-changed-to-two-question-marks-when-hide-mobile-input-is-enabled-on-some-android-devices))

- Editor: Fixed issue with emojis in TextField on mobile.
    ([UUM-78397](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-on-libsystem-platform-dot-dylib-platform-strlen-when-hide-mobile-input-is-toggled-and-inputting-emoji-characters))

- Editor: Fixed Issue with Unity Multiplayer Clone Editors had pop up windows that were not supposed to be draggable.

- Editor: Fixed issues where the TextureImporterInspector could sometimes fail to retrieve texture platform settings for platforms with more than one valid internal name \(example: "iPhone" / "iOS"\).
    ([UUM-73858](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-selecting-a-sprite-with-a-custom-default-textureimporter-preset))

- Editor: Fixed issues with world space canvases rendered in offscreen cameras when in play mode and with a user defined application target frame rate. These could display flickering with transparent canvas UI components or ghosting for moving components.
    ([UUM-86486](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/objects-flickering-in-play-mode-when-using-rendertexture-with-canvas))

- Editor: Fixed Light Probe field in the Graphics Settings.
    ([UUM-86964](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renderer-light-probe-selection-option-resets-to-default-when-closing-and-reopening-the-unity-editor))

- Editor: Fixed log messages being shown in Editor window.
    ([UUM-87794](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-autolocale-log-is-logged-when-opening-a-project))

- Editor: Fixed memory leak in Texture2D.CreateExternalTexture when using D3D11 platform.
    ([UUM-77354](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-in-texture2d-dot-createexternaltexture-when-using-d3d11-platform))

- Editor: Fixed missing legacy deformers shapes for new water decal.
    (UUM-85483)

- Editor: Fixed null ref exception when trying to maximize a pop-up window.
    ([UUM-76218](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-trying-to-maximize-view-in-anchor-presets-menu))

- Editor: Fixed NullReferenceException when Target of the RenderFunc is null.

- Editor: Fixed random editor freeze when generating lighting.
    ([UUM-84915](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lighting-generation-freezes-the-editor-during-the-global-illumination-post-processing-stage-when-baking-lighting-on-certain-systems))

- Editor: Fixed reimport Raytrace shader when switching between Mac, Windows, and Linux build target.
    ([UUM-83044](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assets-that-have-a-platform-dependency-are-not-reimported-when-moving-the-project-from-mac-to-windows))

- Editor: Fixed rendering issues for XRSettings.renderViewportScale when using Vulkan.
    ([UUM-83765](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quest-visual-distortions-in-the-top-half-of-the-screen-when-changing-resolution-scale-for-player-built-with-vulkan))

- Editor: Fixed scene filtering not working on metal sometimes with render graph.
    ([UUM-76465](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-filtering-leaves-all-gameobjects-gray-when-urp-opaque-texture-or-depth-priming-is-disabled))

- Editor: Fixed searchpropositions for Hierarchy t:prefab.
    ([UUM-86550](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/filter-block-is-incorrectly-named-game-objects-when-the-components-prefabs-is-selected-in-the-global-search-tool))

- Editor: Fixed serialization issue with inline mapping length exceeds hardcoded limit.
    ([UUM-83673](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-parse-file-error-is-thrown-when-opening-a-specific-project-with-custom-build-profiles))

- Editor: Fixed some settings Asset icons that were missing in the selection window.
    ([UUM-83464](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lighting-settings-asset-icon-is-missing-in-the-selection-window))

- Editor: Fixed sprite asset fallbacks not working on a job.
    ([UUM-85568](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-are-not-generated-when-using-fallback-sprite-assets))

- Editor: Fixed text not being updated after changing some FontAsset's values.
    (UUM-82887)

- Editor: Fixed the Clipping Planes float fields behavior for CameraEditor when using BiRP.
    ([UUM-85583](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-cameras-clipping-planes-far-values-condition-of-being-greater-than-the-near-value-gets-enforced-when-typing-the-value))

- Editor: Fixed the drag line of the splitter not sticking to the mouse position
    ([UUM-79619](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-settings-vertical-separator-position-is-not-synchronized-with-the-mouse-position-when-dragging-it-horizontally))

- Editor: Fixed the issue where licensing modals was printing an error message in Editor console:<br>
    "Layout update is struggling to process current layout".
    (UUM-86833)

- Editor: Fixed the issue where the data time of a downloaded .unitypackage is not parsed correctly.
    ([UUM-86875](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-not-able-to-download-an-asset-store-package-if-the-data-is-corrupted-with-the-publish-dates))

- Editor: Fixed the over-clamping of delta time value applied to "unity_DeltaTime".
    ([UUM-35772](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-global-shader-variable-unity-deltatime-dot-x-value-does-not-match-the-time-dot-deltatime-value-when-compared-via-script))

- Editor: Fixed the wrong GameObject name in the OcclusionEffect URP sample.
    ([UUM-71878](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-package-samples-typo-on-gameobject-movinigcube))

- Editor: Fixed UnityWbRequest.error returning success after querying texture even though texture creation failed.
    ([UUM-90140](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-unitywebrequest-dot-result-of-the-unitywebrequesttexture-dot-gettexture-method-changes-when-accessing-unitywebrequest-dot-downloadhandler-texture))

- Editor: Fixed warning about probe volume.
    ([UUM-75179](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-multiple-shader-warnings-are-thown-in-the-console-after-building-water-samples-scenes))

- Editor: Fixed warning message occurring when Focusing a text just after enabling a UIDocument.
    ([UUM-83856](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cant-generate-mesh-no-font-asset-has-been-assigned-warning-is-thrown-when-setting-focus-to-a-visual-element))

- Editor: Fixed Window menu Package Manager, Asset Store, Services and My Assets have been moved to a Package Management submenu. This may impact user-defined keyboard shortcuts or scripts relying on menu item paths. Refer to the upgrade guide for more details about this change.

- Editor: Fixed Window menu Version Control menu item has been moved to a Version Control submenu and renamed External Provider. This may impact user-defined keyboard shortcuts or scripts relying on menu item paths. Refer to the upgrade guide for more details about this change.

- Editor: Fixes DeviceSimulator to implement Touch.rawPosition to return the starting position of the simulated touch contact.
    ([UUM-58248](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/touch-dot-rawposition-always-returns-00-when-clicking-or-dragging-anywhere-on-the-screen-in-the-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixes InvalidOperationException when using more than 20 render passes.
    ([UUM-85293](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-invalidoperationexception-trying-to-use-a-texture-internalgradinglut-dot-dot-dot-and-render-graph-execution-error-shown-and-scene-turns-black-when-16-or-more-render-objects-are-used))

- Editor: Made the fog density field use Slider\(\).
    ([UUM-83752](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fog-density-field-dragging-is-too-sensitive))

- Editor: Mouse jumping is disabled on Linux when using Wayland.
    ([UUM-82831](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-wayland-slider-values-or-scene-view-moves-exponentially-faster-when-moving-the-mouse-to-a-side-of-the-monitor))

- Editor: Reduced the number of components categorized as Miscellaneous in the Add Component menu.
    (UUM-87195)

- Editor: Remove incorrect reporting of missing script compilation files when using source generators.
    ([UUM-86938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/path-could-not-be-found-for-script-compilation-file-error-is-thrown-when-the-files-are-injected-with-registerpostinitializationoutput))

- Editor: Renamed and reorganized the Help menu items to better indicate where they each direct the user.
    (UUM-86441)

- Editor: Render Graph Viewer - Properly show the values for clear and bindMs
    ([UUM-88044](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/render-graph-viewer-invalid-values-for-clear-and-bindms))

- Editor: The Linux editor will now reduce CPU usage when moved to the background, respecting the "Interaction Mode" setting.
    ([UUM-79514](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-high-cpu-usage-when-editor-interaction-mode-is-set-to-no-throttling))

- Editor: Wizard - Some validations were showing the fix button when it was not needed.
    ([UUM-78839](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-wizard-fix-buttons-have-no-functionality-when-setting-up-hdrp-plus-dxr))

- Editor: \[URP\]\[RG\] Incorrect partial blur when using RenderGraph in URP
    ([UUM-79602](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-partial-blur-when-using-rendergraph-in-urp))

- Entities: Fixed an issue where an exception would be thrown when exiting play mode after closing and opening a sub scene.
    ([UUM-86554](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-prefab-error-appears-in-the-console-window-when-re-importing-the-sub-scene-containing-a-prefab-during-repeated-entry-into-play-mode))

- GI: Fixed a negative loop iteration count on Switch.
    (UUM-83610)

- GI: Fixed an issue where Adaptive Probe Volumes could not be baked when the chosen graphics library is GLES.

- GI: Fixed an issue where baking only Adaptive Probe Volumes would update lights in an unpersistent way, causing double contribution with realtime lighting after scene reload.
    ([UUM-78573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bake-probe-volumes-button-does-not-store-that-lights-are-baked))

- GI: Fixed an issue where exporting a unitypackage with a scene using Adaptive Probe Volumes didn't include all the lighting data.
    (UUM-79581)

- GI: Fixed an issue where Path Tracing package was not compilable when building player.
    (UUM-84131)

- GI: Fixed an issue where sampling of Adaptive Probe Volumes was incorrect when using leak reduction modes on GLES.
    (UUM-82539)

- GI: Fixed issue where the result of sampling Adaptive Probe Volumes would look different on each eye when using HDRP with Single Pass Instanced rendering and Camera Relative Rendering enabled.
    (UUM-84382)

- GI: Fixed to remove the loaded data when a temporary baking set is created.
    (UUM-73654)

- GI: Fixed to work the baked lightmap debug mode with HDRP terrains.
    ([UUM-82974](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-baked-lightmap-debug-doesnt-work-with-hdrp-terrains))

- Graphics: Adds a new option for cross-fade dithering type, which achieves dithering by stencil test instead of alpha testing. By enabling this option, the shader keyword LOD_FADE_CROSSFADE is stripped in forward/deferred pass and in depth-normal prepass \(Limitation: it is not stripped if GPU instancing is enabled or if render graph is disabled\). Stencil override is incompatible with this option.

- Graphics: Decreased the storage size of combined static meshes when using Metal.
    ([UUM-83137](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-static-batched-meshes-have-increased-in-size))

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when importing a 16K normal map texture from gray scale.
    ([UUM-79322](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-miniheightmap-extractnormalmap-00-when-16k-map-size-is-applied-with-create-from-grayscale-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when using native graphics jobs on Metal.
    ([UUM-44469](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-crashes-without-stack-frames-in-metal-submission-thread-on-macos-when-graphics-jobs-are-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed a problem with Texture Streaming where a material could remain blurry and not streamed in for an undefined amount of time.
    ([UUM-73384](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-material-variant-is-rendered-blurry-after-reopening-unity-when-the-mipmap-streaming-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed a rare crash on certain Samsung devices when running GLES.
    (UUM-29705)

- Graphics: Fixed an Editor crash when releasing Adaptive Probe Volume data.
    ([UUM-76437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-crash-on-tlsf-free-when-generating-lighting-or-opening-a-different-scene-while-in-a-corrupted-scene))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue by making sure resolve surface iss linked to surface in OpenGL Core when using MSAA.
    ([UUM-83898](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-samples-multiple-attempting-to-resolve-render-surface-and-other-errors-appear-when-setting-quality-pipeline-asset))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue by making sure resolve surface iss linked to surface in OpenGL Core when using MSAA.
    ([UUM-86641](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/opengl-black-game-view-when-anti-aliasing-msaa-and-render-graph-are-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue where "glClientWaitSync: Expected application to have kicked everything until job" error is spammed when disabling Raw Image.
    ([UUM-35986](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-opengl-glclientwaitsync-expected-application-to-have-kicked-everything-until-job-error-is-spammed-when-disabling-raw-image))

- Graphics: Fixed an Issue where resizing the SceneView would throw errors.
    ([UUM-83527](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendertexture-create-failed-errors-are-shown-in-the-console-when-the-scene-window-is-shrunk-with-bloom-intensity-set-to-1))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue where STP was disabled if TAA was disabled.
    ([UUM-87121](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-fails-to-render-when-cameras-are-stacked-and-stp-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue with GPU frametime scope for dx11.
    (UUM-70012)

- Graphics: Fixed glFramebufferTexture2DMultisampleEXT failure on Adreno drivers when per-format max MSAA limit exceeds global max MSAA limit.
    (UUM-76807)

- Graphics: Fixed GPUResidentDrawer crash in ParallelSortExtensions.ParallelSort because of an array being diposed while still used by some jobs.
    ([UUM-83578](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-parallelsortextensions-parallelsort))

- Graphics: Fixed GPUResidentDrawer deadlock because of a double dispose of CPUSharedInstanceData.materialIDArrays.
    (UUM-83561)

- Graphics: Fixed GPUResidentDrawer Editor crash on Metal when occluderDepthPyramidKernels compute shader import fails.
    (UUM-84509)

- Graphics: Fixed msaa resolves of SetRenderTarget-based rending not being done before beginning a new renderpass.
    ([UUM-72239](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fullscreen-blit-is-not-working-when-render-graph-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed picking and outline for all BatchRendererGroup draw types.
    (UUM-87382)

- Graphics: Fixed RayTracingAccelerationStructure.AddInstances assigning the same instance ID to all ray tracing instances added to the acceleration structure, making it impossible to identify individual instances added using this function.
    ([UUM-85733](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raytracing-impossible-to-identify-individual-instances-added-using-rtas-dot-addinstances-in-a-compute-shader-when-using-ray-queries))

- Graphics: Fixed render graph passes not being fully cleared correctly at the end of the frame, leading to occasional execution errors.
    (UUM-85333)

- Graphics: Fixed Reset of the default VolumeProfile in ProjectSettings &gt; Graphics.
    (UUM-77760)

- Graphics: Fixed SRP Batcher checking the against the active render pipeline causing incorrect bindings
    ([UUM-77168](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragon-crashers-ui-toolkit-has-a-corrupted-profile-icon-in-player))

- Graphics: Fixed too aggressive material property block clearing issue.
    ([UUM-85970](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/edge-detection-fails-blittexture-texelsize-is-0))

- Graphics: Fixed Variable shading rate related command buffer API and shading rate image API documentation added.

- Graphics: FrameDebugger -  Fixed an issue to allow displaying depth of RenderTargets with both color and depth.
    (UUM-78955)

- Graphics: On Metal, the blend state and color mask specified in Shader Passes are now applied to the correct render targets.
    ([UUM-83382](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-silicon-colormask-render-target-3-and-above-does-not-work-correctly-when-using-multiple-render-target))

- Graphics: The Render pass API was sometimes erroneously considering a configuration that was valid as invalid when rendering to array slices or mipmaps.

- HDRP: Ensure custom post-processing effects are disabled when post-processing is disabled.
    (UUM-78486)

- HDRP: Fixed a bug that caused HDAdditionalLightData with preserveCachedShadow to be evicted from the cachedShadowManager.
    ([UUM-83766](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-add-renderer-to-the-scene-after-culling-dot-and-nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-errors-spawned-when-changing-the-light-shadow-settings-in-the-player))

- HDRP: Fixed a shader error when using water excluder with entities.
    ([UUM-86522](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-exclusion-shader-doesnt-work-with-brg))

- HDRP: Fixed advanced upsampler settings not visible on platforms where they are not supported.
    (UUM-84078)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue by adding clamp to HairAngleWorld to prevent nan from FastASin.
    ([UUM-72279](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-scene-view-flickers-when-moving-around-if-there-are-visible-hair-shaders))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue to avoid calling the Cleanup method twice so the celestial data remains.
    ([UUM-83616](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-empty-template-starts-with-incorrect-physically-based-sky-ground))

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where DebugDisplay Camera list grew beyond number of active cameras, every time a camera was registered or unregistered.
    (UUM-86686)

- HDRP: Fixed black line artifacts on top of the screen with DRS and downsampled SSAO.
    ([UUM-69425](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/artifacts-are-seen-in-the-game-view-when-setting-dlss-custom-quality-mode-to-ultra-performance-and-using-the-qhd-resolution-in-play-mode))

- HDRP: Fixed color pyramid sampling when distortion is enabled after the distortion pass.
    ([UUM-75319](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-custom-pass-before-post-process))

- HDRP: Fixed errors that would occur when building the XR player with Water System enabled.
    ([UUM-85851](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/console-errors-when-trying-to-build-a-player-in-hdrp-with-xr))

- HDRP: Fixed HairVertex instancing-related shader-compilation issues.
    ([UUM-84231](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hair-is-not-visible-in-player-when-hq-line-renderer-is-enabled-in-the-minimal-hair-sample))

- HDRP: Fixed invalid global state pushed when using override camera rendering in the CustomPassUtils functions.
    ([UUM-82849](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/render-passes-break-when-using-the-hdrp-custompassutils-dot-renderfromcamera-method-in-a-custom-pass))

- HDRP: Fixed layer index out of range in LayeredLitGUI.
    ([UUM-71157](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/layer-lit-4th-layer-not-working))

- HDRP: Fixed Screen-Space Subsurface Scattering leaking from material with a subsurface mask set to 0.
    ([UUM-76359](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/subsurface-scattering-is-leaking-color-from-areas-with-subsurface-mask-to-0))

- HDRP: Fixed visual artifacts when using the Graphics Compositor on the editor on MacOS. The issue occurred when changing the "Output Camera" and the "Clear Color" field was disabled.
    ([UUM-84610](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graphics-compositor-breaks-unity-rendering-when-the-output-camera-is-changed-to-a-scene-camera-and-one-camera-sublayer-is-active))

- HDRP: Fixed wrong SSR when using a shader graph with a clear coat value of 0.
    ([UUM-84980](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-clear-coat-materials-produce-screen-space-reflections-when-the-clear-coat-value-is-0-in-forward-only-lit-shader-mode))

- HDRP: Ignore material variants with log message.
    (UUM-72639)

- HDRP: Removed the "Setting MRTs without a depth buffer is not supported" error in Volumetric Clouds Combine pass.
    (UUM-84590)

- HDRP: Removed the FixAll button from the High Definition Render Pipeline \(HDRP\) Wizard when no automated fix is available.
    ([UUM-84977](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fix-all-button-does-not-disappear-after-applying-fixes-when-setting-up-dxr))

- IL2CPP: Added QNX 8.0.

- IL2CPP: Fixed "DllNotFoundException: Unable to load DLL 'kernel32.dll'" error on Universal Windows Platform when using HttpClient.
    ([UUM-79112](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dllnotfoundexception-unable-to-load-dll-kernel32-dot-dll-is-thrown-when-using-httpclient-on-hololens-2))

- IL2CPP: Fixed a memory corruption on a constrained call on an integral pointer type in unsafe generic code.

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue by removing a potential 1000ms delay during shutdown.

- IL2CPP: Fixed an issue where Il2CppEagerStaticClassConstructionAttribute did not have defined behavior which resulted in an out of order initialization on nested static constructors.
    ([UUM-84202](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-dot-mathematics-dot-affinetransform-dot-identity-returns-a-zero-filled-value-when-a-project-is-built-with-an-il2cpp-background))

- IL2CPP: Fixed crash when creating too many threads.
    (UUM-78115)

- IL2CPP: Fixed issue with the wrong calling convention being used on function pointers when two function pointers with the same signature only differed by calling convention.

- IL2CPP: Fixed MethodAccessException when using the the AsyncOperation&lt;T&gt;.Result value as a generic interface.
    (UUM-86794)

- Input System: Fixed an internal Unity issue that could cause the Input System package to stop processing data from devices.
    ([UUM-85315](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-is-not-received-after-some-time-when-using-a-gamepad))

- iOS: Checking ARKit requirement in custom build profiles player settings will fill camera description the same way it does in project settings.
    (UUM-84779)

- iOS: Fixed an issue to make On Demand Resources variant settings customizable in Player settings of a custom build profile.
    (UUM-85569)

- iOS: Fixed Entitlements file randomly disappearing on consecutive builds.
    (UUM-90160)

- iOS: Fixed plugin framework folders showing up red in exported iOS Xcode project.
    (UUM-84687)

- iOS: Fixed QualitySettings handling \(when AA is involved\) in Split View.
    ([UUM-61559](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-game-view-resolution-is-altered-when-changing-between-quality-levels-that-have-a-different-anti-aliasing-setting-on-ipad-with-split-view-active))

- iOS: Fixed the character limit of the keyboard shown with TouchScreenKeyboard.Open.
    ([UUM-77509](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-touchscreenkeyboard-allows-an-extra-character-when-characterlimit-is-set))

- iOS: Fixed the Use On-Demand Resources player setting so it can be overridden when using a build profile.
    (UUM-84440)

- iOS: Fixed WebCamDevice.availableResolutions returning \[0;0\] on some devices.
    ([UUM-87792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-webcamdevice-dot-availableresolutions-returns-a-single-resolution-with-width-and-height-both-0-on-some-ios-devices))

- Kernel: Fixed a hang that would occur when accessing transforms immediately after scheduling a transform job with dependencies.
    ([UUM-86782](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-freezes-when-schedulereadonly-of-ijobparallelfortransform-with-dependency-is-used))

- License: Updated Licensing Client to 1.16.0.

- Linux: Fixed Input.mouseScrollDelta which could be inconsistent depending on the framerate.
    ([UUM-88049](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-input-dot-mousescrolldelta-is-inconsistent-when-limiting-framerate))

- Linux: Fixed mouse wheel input inversion on Legacy Input System and IMGUI.

- Linux: Fixed new input touch timestamps
    (UUM-79893)

- macOS: Fixed an issue with \[Application.targetFrameRate\]\(ScriptRef:Application-targetFrameRate\) so it's now ignored if the value of \[QualitySettings.vSyncCount\]\(ScriptRef:QualitySettings-vSyncCount\) is greater than 0.
    ([UUM-83568](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vsynccount-is-ignored-on-macos-standalone-player))

- macOS: Fixed Ctrl+C not caught on headless MacOS games, in turn, OnApplicationQuit does not get called.
    ([UUM-87122](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onapplicationquit-is-not-called-and-logger-debug-lines-are-missing-in-player-log-when-exiting-mac-dedicated-server))

- Mono: Fixed a crash for MONO_TYPE_FNPTR cases in mono_field_get_value_object_checked.
    ([UUM-79025](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-raiseexception-when-using-the-default-equals-object-implementation-in-a-value-type-containing-a-function-pointer))

- Mono: Fixed a possible out-of-bounds memory write when inlining code with code coverage enabled.
    (UUM-83778)

- Mono: Fixed a potential read beyond the end of a buffer on MacOS when iterating directories.
    (UUM-83824)

- Mono: Fixed an exception being thrown due to a race condition within Encoding.GetEncoding.
    (UUM-82959)

- Mono: Fixed crash when loading a class which contained fields at the end of the metadata table with a table size 65535.
    ([UUM-78961](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mono-class-setup-basic-field-info-when-opening-a-project))

- Mono: Fixed JIT trampoline memory leak with Timers and Sockets.
    ([UUM-76306](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-when-using-net-sockets))

- Mono: Fixed some corner case issues with math operations.

- Mono: Fixeda  rare NullReferenceException during a constrained call on a value type.
    ([UUM-79115](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-mono-release-mode-jit-causes-an-error-when-using-a-memorymappedfile))

- Networking: Fixed an issue where TLS connections would fail to be established after a certain time/number.
    ([UUM-83744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tlsexception-handshake-failed-error-code-unitytls-internal-error-error-when-a-lot-of-web-requests-are-sent-within-a-few-minutes))

- Package Manager: Dependency resolution no longer breaks when there is a dependency on a core package with a different version. Instead, the Package Manager will use the built-in package version. It is possible to preserve the previous behaviour and override specific core packages with a version pulled from a custom scoped registry by adding the following to the scoped registry configuration: `"overrideBuiltIns": true`.

- Package Manager: Fix the issue where using the 'Window.Open" API to select a package would silently fails when it is hidden by "Show PreRelease Package Versions" setting.
    (UUM-82771)

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where the Experimental Package in Use dropdown button didn't select the correct page in the Package Manager.
    (UUM-85699)

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where the refresh timestamp does not get updated when users click on `Refresh List` button.
    ([UUM-77972](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/last-update-time-is-not-refreshed-when-clicking-the-refresh-list-button))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where UnityEditor.PackageManager.UI.Sample.FindByPackage will no longer throw an exception when passed an unknown package.
    (UUM-86326)

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where update available filter didn't always refresh the list properly.
    (UUM-85700)

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue with the overflow of tabs dropdown icon.
    (UUM-79591)

- Package Manager: Fixed NullException thrown in a multi page wizard import when clicking on the previous button.
    (UUM-82611)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where incorrect registry info is shown for packages that do not belong to any registry.
    (UUM-84168)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where quick start button didn't link to the document page for the current Unity version.
    ([UUM-78210](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quickstart-buttons-for-unity-registry-feature-sets-links-to-outdated-documentation))

- Package Manager: Switch project when importing a full project asset package is fixed for mac users.
    ([UUM-87430](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-switching-project-functionality-when-importing-a-complete-project-is-broken))

- Package Manager: Users can now import without having to choose a project setting with at least one asset previously selected.
    (UUM-82612)

- Particles: Introduced ParticleSystem.SetParticlesAndTrails\(\) to allow trail particles to survive when Die With Particles is off, and the particles' lifetime ends with remaining trail data. This replaces ParticlesSystem.SetTrails\(\), which is now deprecated.
    ([UUM-63445](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-behave-differently-when-copying-the-state-of-a-particle-system-to-an-instance-of-itself-and-the-trails-modules-die-with-particle-option-is-disabled))

- Particles: Scheduling a Particle System job outside of MonoBehaviour.OnParticleUpdateJobScheduled\(\) will now generate an InvalidOperationException in order to prevent incorrect job schedules which could cause a hang.
    ([UUM-79599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freezes-slash-hangs-when-calling-schedulebatch-for-ijobparticlesystemparallelforbatch))

- Physics: Fixed a race condition inside Physics Debugger's contacts tab. Where the underlying contacts array would be incorrectly passed onto new jobs while still in use inside the previous set of contacts display jobs.
    (PHYS-387)

- Physics: Fixed an issue by securing a mass properties recomputation case for Rigidbody components. A error message would be printed in the console if a concave MeshCollider would be present under a kinematic Rigidbody during authoring. This issue would happen due to a unsecured path inside the 'Awake' logic of Rigidbody where mass recomputation would be attempted on this setup. The PhysX SDK would log a message informing that the attempted operation was invalid on the aforementioned setup.
    ([UUM-86499](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics-dot-physx-errors-are-thrown-when-undoing-transform-changes-on-prefab-with-mesh-collider-and-rigidbody-components))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where Joint gizmos would no longer follow the joint they are being displayed, during playmode.

- Physics: Fixed an issue where mass distribution updates with regards to setting the center of mass for a Rigidbody component would not affect WheelCollider components.
    ([UUM-84990](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vehicle-body-is-lifted-way-above-wheels-containing-a-wheelcollider-component-when-entering-play-mode))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where Physics Debugger wouldn't take physics shape scale into account when rendering.
    ([UUM-83050](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-physics-debugger-displays-incorrect-collision-volume-when-compared-to-its-collider-bounds))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where the CharacterController component would not properly have it's transform synced to the data set to the Transform component.
    ([UUM-83065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerenter-is-triggered-when-editing-character-controller-slope-limit))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where the debug draw representation of TerrainCollider was incorrect after changing the position of it's GameObject.
    (PHYS-392)

- Physics: Fixed an issue where vehicle data would not be preserved when adding multiple WheelCollider components using the GameObject scripting APIs.
    ([UUM-85527](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/colliders-of-gameobject-with-rigidbody-component-fail-to-collide-with-another-gameobject-when-rigidbody-becomes-kinematic))

- Physics: Fixed an issue with CharacterController and WheelCollider components where a complete collision mask conflict \(one mask indicates collision, while the other indicates to ignore the collision and the layer override priority is the same for both masks\) would be resolved as 'collide' rather than 'ignore', resulting in unexpected collision events.
    (PHYS-383)

- Physics: Fixed an issue with Rigidbody's Angular Drag and Drag property data not being correctly upgraded when opening a scene asset saved in 2022LTS or earlier.
    (PHYS-399)

- Physics: Fixed an issue with TerrainCollider's tree debug visualization not being displayed at all.
    (PHYS-397)

- Physics: Fixed an issue with the Cloth component's inspector where exiting play-mode with the self and inter collision tool open would cause a null reference exception.
    ([UUM-78853](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-and-cannot-modify-overlay-dot-displayed-during-event-of-type-eventtype-dot-layout-shown-when-entering-the-play-mode-with-self-collision-and-inter-collision-window-focused))

- Physics: Fixed CharacterJoint's derrived axis locks being ignored. This would cause some ragdoll setups for never come to rest during simulation.
    ([UUM-83156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/character-joints-unexpectedly-rotate-when-a-ragdoll-is-created-using-the-ragdoll-wizard))

- Physics: Fixed Repeated OnTriggerEnter Events with CharacterController Slope Limit Updates.
    ([UUM-83065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerenter-is-triggered-when-editing-character-controller-slope-limit))

- Physics: Renamed serialized property names within Rigidbody component: m_Drag and m_AngularDrag are now m_LinearDamping and m_AngularDamping. The change was done in order to no longer be inconsistent with respect to the Rigidbody API which already adheres to this naming convention.
    (PHYS-396)

- Physics 2D: Fixed an issue to by ensuring that Rigidbody2D.Cast correctly uses the ContactFilter2D.useTriggers or the global Physics2D.queriesHitTriggers options.
    ([UUM-87102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody2d-dot-cast-does-not-detect-collisions-when-is-trigger-property-is-enabled))

- Physics 2D: Fixed an issue when disabling a Collider2D to ensure that contacts are not destroyed before they are reported if "Callbacks On Disable" is active.
    ([UUM-89955](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ontriggerexit2d-events-are-not-triggered-when-disabling-collider-despite-callbacks-on-disable-being-enabled))

- Profiler: Fixed an issue by restoring the Frame to Selected functionality, bound to F, in the Standalone Profiler.
    (UUM-90093)

- Profiler: Fixed an issue in the Profiler Timeline view where the options in the Show dropdown menu would display incorrect views.
    (UUM-83138)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where custom tool buttons in the Tools overlay would unnecessarily consume GPU resources every editor frame.
    ([UUM-84132](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gpu-utilization-increases-when-a-gameobject-is-selected))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed EditorTools icon not showing when importing a new package.
    (UUM-86481)

- Scene/Game View: Reduced the state update time for custom tool buttons in the Tools overlay.
    (UUM-84264)

- Scripting: Added the InstantiateParameters struct. This addition provides support for local space and target scenes in `Object.InstantiateAsync`.
    ([UUM-83002](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cube-instantiated-by-the-instantiateasync-method-spawns-on-the-world-center-when-in-the-arguments-the-parent-is-passed-in))

- Scripting: Fixed an issue where "await Awaitable.MainThreadAsync" or "await Awaitable.BackgroundThreadAsync\(\)" would have a side effect on the outermost callers when used deep in an "async Awaitable" call graph.
    (UUM-87426)

- Scripting: Fixed false positives of warning CS8602 when user code was compiled with nullability checks and implicit converter from UnityEngine.Object to bool was used.
    (UUM-87634)

- Search: Ensure SearchViewItem doesn't modify SearchItem state.
    ([UUM-79399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/select-preset-inspector-header-background-changes-size-between-none-and-create-new-preset-with-no-change-in-content))

- Search: Ensure SearchViewItem doesn't modify SearchItem state.
    ([UUM-79646](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/select-preset-none-icon-changes-after-switching-tabs))

- Search: Fixed Audio Mixer asset icons in the Search window.
    ([UUM-73173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-mixer-assets-are-using-the-wrong-icons-in-search))

- Search: Fixed reduced the memory consumption of Search during indexation. Now memory is disposed of properly after an incremental update.
    ([UUM-85044](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-usage-increases-significantly-when-using-global-search))

- Search: Fixed Scene Provider search when a string property is a numerical value.
    ([UUM-69142](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-results-are-not-displayed-when-a-string-property-is-a-numeric-value))

- Search: Search Scene Selector shows file with unity in their name.
    ([UUM-83640](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-scene-selector-shows-file-with-unity-in-their-name))

- Search: Using ReuseWindow SearchFlags won't create a new window and won't change its position.
    ([UUM-75480](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-open-search-all-window-will-move-to-newest-additional-window-when-accessing))

- Serialization: Fixed a crash on ReadAndActivateObjectThreaded when reimporting a missing PSB file prefab.
    ([UUM-59093](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-readandactivateobjectthreaded-when-reimporting-a-missing-psb-file-prefab))

- Serialization: Fixed an issue by handling a hash collisions in the TypeTreeCache.
    (UUM-85722)

- Shadergraph: Added issue where an unnecessary error message would be generated on non-conflicting duplicate property declarations when using multiple targets.
    ([UUM-76524](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-two-properties-with-the-same-reference-name-stencilwritemask-produce-different-hlsl-properties-logged-when-the-shader-graph-has-canvas-and-material-sub-targets))

- Shadergraph: Added missing documentation about the Custom Render Texture in Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-76730](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-documentation-page-on-custom-render-texture-shadergraph))

- Shadergraph: Added new manipulator for ShaderGraph MainPreview to fix wrong drag handing on OSX.
    ([UUM-76223](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-shader-graph-main-preview-is-rotated-on-mouse-movement-after-changing-the-main-preview-type))

- Shadergraph: Fixed a bug that a shader graph is reverted to its last saved state when entering Play Mode without saving changes.
    ([UUM-49399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-is-reverted-to-its-primary-state-when-entering-play-mode-without-saving-changes))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where the Main Light Direction node always returned 0 on the built-in render pipeline.
    ([UUM-78803](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-main-light-direction-node-in-the-shader-graph-does-not-output-light-direction-for-directional-light-when-used-with-the-built-in-render-pipeline))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where Unity pragmas were not used in files included by the Custom Function Node, and added a "Use Pragmas" toggle to enable/disable them as needed.
    (UUM-78849)

- Shadergraph: Fixed Shader warnings in URP ShaderGraph when using the Normal From Texture node.
    ([UUM-90053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-warnings-in-urp-shadergraph-when-using-the-normal-from-texture-node))

- Shadergraph: Fixed to add a Vector4 slot in sub-graph on converting from a node.
    ([UUM-75936](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-a-sub-graph-must-have-at-least-one-output-slot-is-logged-in-console-when-converting-nodes-to-sub-graphs))

- Shadergraph: Mark a shader graph dirty when toggling checkboxes in its Graph Settings.
    (UUM-83383)

- Shadergraph: \[Metal\] Fix shader compilation errors due to Foveated Rendering when building URP 3D template.
    (UUM-77815)

- Shaders: Fixed a bug where incorrect line numbers are reported in preprocessor errors after block comments.
    (UUM-87896)

- Shaders: Fixed a crash that could occur when a shadow caster pass is deleted due to shader errors.
    (UUM-82622)

- Shaders: Fixed a rare crash in the Editor.
    (UUM-87927)

- Shaders: Fixed a rare crash when saving the tracked shader variants into a variant collection.
    ([UUM-86510](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-when-saving-currently-tracked-variants-to-asset))

- Shaders: Fixed a rare error involving incompatible keyword states.
    (UUM-87539)

- Shaders: Fixed BiRP support for strict shader variant matching.
    ([UUM-58290](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-is-missing-when-strict-shader-variant-matching-is-enabled-in-the-player-settings))

- Shaders: Fixed compute shader compilation variant cache hits to be reported correctly in the editor log.
    ([UUM-75264](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-cache-is-not-used-when-building-the-player-repeatedly))

- Shaders: Fixed editor rendering cyan on game/scene view at each editor startup.
    ([UUM-75262](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-are-always-recompiled-when-the-editor-is-opened))

- Shaders: Fixed implicit randomwrite shader requirement for compute shaders.
    (UUM-85545)

- Shaders: Fixed rare occasions of objects batching together incorrectly.
    (UUM-35593)

- Shaders: Fixed shader compiler crashing when encountering a kernel directive without a provided name.
    ([UUM-85898](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/internal-shader-error-is-shown-when-a-corrupted-shader-is-imported))

- Shaders: Fixed SHADER_TARGET macro is now available during shader import.
    ([UUM-87423](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editing-the-unitydotsinstancing-dot-hlsl-file-does-not-cause-a-shader-recompilation))

- Shaders: Shader inspector now shows the highest number of variants per shader stage instead of number of vertex stage variants.
    ([UUM-55971](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-inspector-of-a-shader-asset-does-not-show-the-correct-number-of-vertex-and-fragment-shader-variants-when-using-multi-compile-fragment-directive))

- Shaders: Shaders will now produce errors when encountering the same keyword in different directives.
    ([UUM-55930](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unnecessary-shader-variants-caused-by-the-same-keyword-when-declared-in-both-multi-compile-and-shader-feature-local))

- SpeedTree: Fixed a crash in SpeedTreeWindManager with certain prefab assets when play mode was engaged.
    ([UUM-85328](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-anonymous-namespace-preparetreesandwritewindparamsjobdata-execute-when-entering-play-mode-on-a-specific-project-1))

- SpeedTree: Fixed an issue where undo was not possible when the branch was rotated.
    ([UUM-82599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/branch-rotation-cant-be-undone))

- SpeedTree: Importer error for .st files when there are special characters in the file path.
    ([UUM-83783](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/speedtree-importer-fails-to-import-st-files-when-path-to-the-project-includes-a-special-character))

- SRP Core: Fixed an issue where Lens Flare was not rendering properly in OpenGLES3.
    (UUM-84431)

- SRP Core: Fixed missing STP shaders &amp; visual artifacts when targeting GLCore renderer.
    (UUM-84661)

- SRP Core: Fixed render graph incorrectly handling rendering to array slices and mipmaps other than 0 in some cases.
    (UUM-77828)

- SRP Core: Fixed the crash happening when APV tried to stream in block data.
    ([UUM-67179](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-block-locate-free-when-rendering-a-specific-scene))

- SRP Core: Render Graph Viewer - Improved UI lock when searching on side panels.
    ([UUM-84594](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-freezes-on-rendergraphviewer-dot-repaint-when-entering-too-many-characters-in-search-fields-without-character-limits))

- SRP Core: Render Graph Viewer - Padding corrected on burger menu on the side panels.
    ([UUM-84012](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/render-graphs-kebab-menu-buttons-are-missing-padding-and-highlight-is-uneven-when-hovered-over))

- Terrain: Fixed an issue in which calling terrainData.SyncTexture\(TerrainData.HolesTextureName\) causes a crash when no holes have been created before due to a null variable.
    (UUM-76880)

- Text: Added spacing properties to ATG.
    (UUM-90101)

- Text: Enabled OSFontFallbacks for ATG.
    (UUM-78505)

- Text: Fixed a memory leak when using TextElement.
    (UUM-90728)

- Text: Fixed an issue by ensuring parse escape sequences also drive Unicode literals.
    ([UUM-79895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unicode-literals-are-replaced-with-rectangle-symbol-when-entering-unicode-in-the-text-field))

- Text: Fixed an issue to improved WeakReference handling to protect against the \(extremely unlikely, but still possible\) event that the GC runs between checking that the handle is alive and dereferencing it.
    (UUM-86325)

- Text: Fixed an issue where text elements could not be properly aligned when styled with the `<u>` and `<s>` rich text tags.
    (UUM-88008)

- Text: Fixed an issue where the text cache would continue to refer to a cleared font asset.
    ([UUM-79381](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-fallback-source-continues-to-refer-to-the-clearfontassetdataed-glyph-after-clearfontassetdata-is-applied))

- Text: Fixed an issue where tint was applied to a color emoji.
    (UUM-78539)

- Text: Fixed ATG tab support.
    (UUM-87903)

- Text: Fixed out of range issue when dragging on a empty field.
    ([UUM-79222](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-is-thrown-when-continuously-clicking-the-textfield-and-dragging))

- Text: Fixed text multi-thread issue.
    (UUM-79873)

- Text: Removed redundant check for null SpriteCharacters when generating text meshes.
    (UUM-86328)

- Text: Removed the need for ICU data to be in the user's project.
    (UUM-86054)

- TextCore: Fixed an ATG crash that would occur with static FontAsset.
    (UUM-78094)

- TextCore: Fixed an issue to ensure the editor only clear FontAssets that are initialized.
    ([UUM-82370](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-fontasset-dot-clearatlastextures-set-the-size-of-atlases-to-1x1-when-setatlassizetozero-is-true-resulting-in-a-constant-clearing-of-atlases-of-size-1x1-on-editor-shutdown))

- TextCore: Fixed thread issue when using CJK text.
    ([UUM-78458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unityexception-get-bytes-can-only-be-called-from-the-main-thread-dot-error-is-thrown-when-asset-name-contains-chinese-characters))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed a flush alignment not being exact in TMP issue.
    ([UUM-85001](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textmeshpro-text-is-misaligned-when-it-should-align-in-the-flush-style))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed a TMP crash on Hyphen wrapping.
    ([UUM-84379](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-hangs-when-rendering-tmp-text-component-with-left-and-right-margins-set-in-the-extra-settings))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed an issue to avoid creating a new submesh if the previous one still has space.
    ([UUM-76335](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-lot-of-submesh-children-are-created-when-a-specific-text-is-displayed))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed an issue where tint would affect every emoji until a new sprite tag would be used.
    ([UUM-76467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textmeshpro-emojis-inherit-tint-values-when-placed-after-a-tag))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed color picker not being the same color as the Text in the scene.
    ([UUM-77652](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-color-in-the-inspector-is-different-than-the-gameobject-in-the-scene-when-changing-the-material-face-color))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed the broken URL of the help button on the TextMesh Pro Settings page.
    ([UUM-74086](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sorry-dot-dot-dot-that-page-seems-to-be-missing-is-a-result-when-user-clicks-on-textmesh-pro-settings-help-icon))

- TextMeshPro: Updated "Examples and Extras" scenes to be compatible with URP and HDRP.
    ([UUM-74205](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-examples-and-extras-scene-24-shaders-broken))

- uGUI: Fixed exception thrown when pasting text into TMP inputfield with custom validator.
    ([UUM-76312](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-is-thrown-when-using-textmeshpro-input-field-with-custom-validator))

- UI Toolkit: Added error log when detecting recursive SetParent that sets VisualElement parent to something different.
    ([UUM-87366](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-is-not-notified-of-unsupported-behavior-nested-setparent))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed a null-ref exception when converting the UXML preview window into floating mode.
    (UUM-85493)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder where it always deleted the first selector with the same value.
    (UUM-87169)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue so VisualElement hovered style properly rendered in the first frame.
    (UUM-82985)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where data sources could remain cached after an element was removed from the panel.
    (UUM-87201)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where entering play mode could break dependencies between certain UXML files.
    ([UUM-90739](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentexception-thrown-and-reference-to-template-gets-unset-when-opening-uxml-file-after-editing-referenced-template-in-play-mode))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where the UI Builder can now be open during a package reimport.
    ([UUM-77727](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-using-the-at-import-directive-in-uss-files))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed AttributeOverrides overriding attributes that were only included in the templated asset. This would also cause asset references to be lost if they were not explicitly overriden.
    ([UUM-84102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-broken-direct-asset-reference-overrides))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed disabled world-space UIDocument still being rendered.
    (UUM-75165)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed incorrect reporting of 'Out of root' elements in the UI Layout Debugger.
    (UUM-86327)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed inverted y sign in PointerMoveEvent.deltaPosition when using touch input with Active Input Handling = Input Manager \(old\).
    ([UUM-78963](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-ios-the-pointermoveevent-dot-deltaposition-returns-an-inverted-y-axis-when-using-pointermanipulator-to-track-pointer-movements-on-mobile))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed labels alignment for IMGUI containers.
    ([UUM-70643](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serialized-field-is-indented-too-much-in-the-inspector-when-customeditor-is-used))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed misplaced world-space UIDocuments when in dynamic size mode.
    (UUM-86438)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed PointerOutEvent sent too many times on the same element when clicking on it and then elsewhere using Touch.
    ([UUM-54208](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pointeroutevent-is-not-being-called-after-pressing-the-first-button-on-the-touchscreen-when-the-first-button-exchanges-places-with-a-second-button-leaving-the-second-button-in-a-hover-state))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed popup fields not handling pointer up events.
    ([UUM-85620](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selection-of-multi-select-listview-is-changed-when-interacting-with-child-element-in-an-editorwindow))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed serialization of UxmlAttributes for Lists and Arrays of unity objects.
    (UUM-83779)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed SliderInt value being incorrectly clamped when loaded from UXML.
    ([UUM-90116](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/value-on-slider-int-control-in-ui-builder-displays-as-default-when-saving-ui-document))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed TabViews overlap and do not adjust when there are too many TabViews.
    ([UUM-80040](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tabviews-overlap-and-do-not-adjust-when-there-are-too-many-tabviews))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the list remains reorderable when NonReorderableAttribute is used.
    ([UUM-83054](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-list-remains-orderable-when-nonreorderableattribute-is-used))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the popup field handling the pointer-up event when the label was clicked.
    ([UUM-87579](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inconsistent-behaviour-when-interacting-with-different-dropdown-types-with-pointer-events-on-parent-visual-element))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the slider fill element when showing inverted.
    ([UUM-83599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-slider-fill-option-doesnt-invert-when-inverted-option-is-selected))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the UI Builder Learn More URL so it includes the correct version of the Editor.
    ([UUM-77080](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/stylesheets-learn-more-hyperlink-links-to-lts-documentation-instead-of-the-editor-version-that-is-in-use))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed two memory retention issues in the UI Toolkit renderer \(entry processor and render device release\) and added an API to reset the renderer.
    (UUM-87216)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Builder not displaying the name of some elements in the hierarchy when they did not use UxmlElement or UxmlFactory.
    (UUM-84170)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Toolkit world-space culling issue when using 3D transforms on VisualElements.
    (UUM-86827)

- UI Toolkit: Improved performance for layout in UITK.
    (UUM-90732)

- UI Toolkit: The UXML file importer will now show a button to fix issues with any file paths that have changed but can still be resolved via their guid. Importer errors/warnings can now also be seen in the assets inspector.
    ([UUM-83531](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-icon-image-path-in-a-uxml-file-is-not-updated-when-a-texture-is-renamed-or-moved-after-modifying-and-saving-the-uxml-file-in-the-ui-builder))

- UI Toolkit: UIBuilder: Fixed Inlined Styles Border Inspector UI - top and bottom lines are extending too far to the right.
    (UUM-86970)

- UI Toolkit: \[UI Builder\] Fixed an issue where the dropdown search icon appeared next to the UI Builder's Library search, despite the search having no dropdown functionality.
    ([UUM-90081](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dropdown-search-icon-is-used-next-to-the-ui-builders-library-search-when-the-search-has-no-dropdown-functionality))

- Undo System: Fixed an issue to ensure driven RectTransforms have the correct driving object when applying undo and redo.
    ([UUM-80046](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-is-marked-as-dirty-when-opening-the-project-with-vertical-layout-group-added-as-a-component))

- Undo System: Mark array size changes to keep duplicates within a single undo action.
    (UUM-84565)

- Universal RP: Fixed a depth texture format used for URP 2D RenderPass with Android devices issue.
    (UUM-86791)

- Universal RP: Fixed a redundant empty line in a tooltip for Cast Shadows toggle in the URP Asset for Additional lights.
    ([UUM-83534](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/redundant-empty-space-on-tooltip-for-cast-shadows-option-for-additional-lights))

- Universal RP: Fixed a warning, "Missing types referenced from component UniversalRenderPipelineGlobalSettings..." which was caused by the URP Template project on platforms where ENABLE_VR is not defined.
    ([UUM-82247](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-types-referenced-from-component-universalrenderpipelineglobalsettings-on-game-object-universalrenderpipelineglobalsettings-dot-dot-dot-warning-is-thrown-after-switching-the-platform-to-tvos))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where Game View would flip upside down when using HDR Debug Mode.
    ([UUM-83764](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-is-flipped-upside-down-when-hdr-debug-mode-is-set-to-gamut-view-in-the-lighting-rendering-debugger))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where SS Shadow coord transform was missing from TransformWorldToShadowCoord.
    ([UUM-73947](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadows-are-flickering-in-the-oasis-scene-when-screen-space-shadow-renderer-feature-is-added))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where Transparent Receive Shadows setting didn't work for custom shaders.
    ([UUM-79471](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/main-light-shadows-are-shown-on-transparent-material-when-the-transparent-receive-shadows-parameter-is-disabled))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where WorldToCamera matrix wasn't set before rendering shadows.
    ([UUM-84287](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-shadows-affected-by-custom-shaders-change-their-scale-and-position-when-the-scene-camera-is-adjusted))

- Universal RP: Fixed black pixels \(NaN\) in Lens Distort post-processing effect.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed incorrectly bright pixels by clamping alpha after additive blending to 0-1 range in post-processing when using camera stacking with render scale.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed invalid alpha output for scaling setup shader when using camera stacking with render scale on URP compatibility path.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed invalid viewport for post-process when using camera stacking with render scale.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed post-process FSR upscaling and _ScreenParams for stacked Overlay cameras.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed spamming errors and broken visual when resizing GameView with Free Aspect in DepthBlit sample.
    ([UUM-84029](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-slash-game-view-visually-breaks-and-console-is-spammed-with-errors-when-using-depthblit-sample-scene))

- Universal RP: Modified final depth copy logic to read from depth attachment instead of depth texture to avoid errors when depth texture isn't available
    ([UUM-85289](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-invalidoperationexception-trying-to-use-a-texture-cameradepthtexture-dot-dot-dot-and-render-graph-execution-error-shown-when-selecting-gameobjects-with-mesh-renderer-from-the-hierarchy))

- Universal RP: Optimized finalblit pass load operation bandwidth cost for XR.
    (UUM-60997)

- Universal RP: Remove "AssertionException The RenderTextureDescriptor used to create a TextureDesc contains both graphicsFormat and depthStencilFormat".
    (UUM-84871)

- Universal Windows Platform: Stop reading mdb symbol files during player builds.
    ([UUM-79478](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-fails-with-il2cpp-error-when-building-for-uwp))

- Universal Windows Platform: When graphics jobs are enabled in Universal Windows Platform, Split graphics jobs are used instead of Native jobs with DX12.
    (UUM-77903)

- URP: Fixed sorting the Reflection Probe by resolution.
    ([UUM-83862](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-type-is-not-a-enum-value-logged-when-ordering-reflection-probes-by-resolution-in-light-explorer))

- URP: Fixed the CameraDepthAttachment turning black for DX11.
    ([UUM-64316](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-with-cameradepthattachment-is-not-rendered-when-using-dx11-graphics-api))

- URP: Removed 'implicit truncation of vector type' warnings at URP ScreenSpaceAmbientOcclusion.shader.
    ([UUM-79253](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-are-thrown-after-building-universal-3d-sample-template))

- Version Control: Fixed a crash in the create workspace window when unable to resolve a @unity organization.

- Version Control: Fixed an issue where  the additional line breaks were not getting added to asset files when merging with UnityYAMLMerge with an extra option for user to get the line breaks by default.
    ([UUM-72934](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/additional-line-breaks-are-added-to-asset-files-when-merging-with-unityyamlmerge))

- Version Control: Fixed an issue where a warning message to inform users about mismatching cloud project was missing.

- Version Control: Fixed files getting checked out even though they are in hidden_changes.conf.

- Version Control: Fixed incoming changes view that was not kept as selected after resolving some conflicts.

- Version Control: Fixed link to invite members in Unity Cloud.

- Version Control: Fixed manual login to Cloud that did nt work with an Enterprise installation.

- Version Control: Fixed new child branch not created from HEAD after update.

- Version Control: Fixed resolve conflicts not informing about lack of UVCS installation.

- Version Control: Fixed the Invite users to cloud organization when using an Enterprise installation.

- Version Control: Fixed the learn more \(here\) link that showed the hex color value in Unity 6.

- Version Control: Fixed workspace name that was not refreshed after repository manual creation or selection.

- Version Control: Removed from the Create Workspace window the Local server that was present with no installation of UVCS.

- Version Control: Replaced hardcoded urls pointing to plasticscm.com.

- Version Control: UnityYAMLMerge is now able to open files when using long file paths on Windows.
    ([UUM-77908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unityyamlmerge-cannot-open-files-when-using-long-file-paths-on-windows))

- VFX Graph: Creating a Custom HLSL operator with two outputs could prevent the generated shader from compiling
    ([UUM-83676](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-custom-hlsl-operator-with-two-output-parameters-function-duplicates-its-code))

- VFX Graph: Fixed a small cursor offset when drawing a rectangle selection.
    ([UUM-86681](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-selection-rectangle-corner-misaligned-with-mouse))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an argument exception that used Arc Transform in blackboard.
    ([UUM-84065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentexception-is-thrown-when-modifying-transform-values-of-properties-with-arc-in-the-vfx-graph-blackboard))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an exception that could prevent opening a VFX in one specific case.
    ([UUM-85231](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/opening-a-vfx-graph-file-triggers-a-windows-prompt-select-an-app-to-open-this-vfx-file-and-logs-a-nullreferenceexception-error-to-the-console))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue subgraph blocks did not accept correct types of block based on their suitable context.
    ([UUM-83521](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-subgraph-nesting-isnt-functionnal))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue when importing old VFX asset in Unity6 using custom attribute with same name as built-in attribute.
    ([UUM-83849](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-attributes-will-be-duplicated-upon-upgrading-if-a-built-in-attribute-name-was-used-in-versions-2022-dot-3-and-earlier))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue where reordering properties inside a category were not possible.  Also reordering a category could not work if there was properties at the root \(with no category\)
    ([UUM-83678](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-properties-cannot-be-reordered-when-inside-a-categoy))

- VFX Graph: Fixed arc Shape properties in blackboard not applied in VFXGraph.
    ([UUM-84545](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-arctorus-transform-changes-in-blackboard-not-reflected-in-graph))

- VFX Graph: Fixed port's label was not be visible when node is collapsed.
    ([UUM-83852](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-operators-size-isnt-consistent))

- VFX Graph: Fixed usage of FogNode always returning 1.0 in URP.
    ([UUM-85384](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-urp-shadergraph-integration-issue-with-vfx-and-fog))

- VFX Graph: Fixed VFX particles GBuffer pass with URP Render Graph.
    ([UUM-83385](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spot-slash-point-lights-do-not-affect-vfx-graph-output-when-compatibility-mode-render-graph-disabled-is-disabled))

- VFX Graph: Incorrect sanitization of SetCustomAttribute when Random was different than Random.Off
    ([UUM-83598](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-random-value-option-in-the-set-attribute-block-gets-disabled-and-the-b-slash-max-value-lost-when-upgrading-to-unity-6))

- VFX Graph: Missing delayed field for Sample Water Surface Operator.
    ([UUM-84054](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-input-field-freezes-when-editing-sample-water-surface-node-vfx-graph))

- VFX Graph: Particle outputs connected to particle strip systems don't render last particle.
    ([UUM-84424](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/disrepancy-between-shadergraph-and-vanilla-outputs-when-using-indexinstrip))

- VFX Graph: Unexpected log "Expression graph was marked as dirty after compiling context for UI" while using Custom HLSL based operators.
    ([UUM-84060](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-the-error-expression-graph-was-marked-as-dirty-after-compiling-context-for-ui-is-thrown-after-editing-sample-water-surface-node))

- VFX Graph: Using the same name as a built-in attribute in a custom HLSL function's parameter would lead to a compilation error.
    ([UUM-83782](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-hsls-redefinition-error-when-input-have-the-same-name-as-attributes))

- Video: Fixed an issue where video contained artifacts when played in the Video Preview section in the Inspector Window.
    ([UUM-83600](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/video-contains-artifacts-when-played-in-the-video-preview-section-in-the-inspector-window))

- Video: Fixed Video with transparency having artifacts on the border of the sprite.
    ([UUM-74644](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-artifacts-in-video-file-on-android-player))

- Video: Updating WebCamTextures on some Android devices may have resulted in errors due to re-initializing already initialized graphics textures - this has been fixed so that initialization is skipped when unnecessary.
    (UUM-84151)

- VisionOS: Fixed an issue where the plugin framework folders were showing up red in exported VisionOS Xcode project.
    (UUM-84687)

- VisionOS: OnApplicationFocus\(false\) is now called when a visionOS app in Metal app mode is sent to the background.
    ([AVPB-443](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onapplicationfocus-isnt-called-when-the-application-goes-in-or-out-of-focus))

- Web: Fixed an issue in `config.autoSyncPersistentDataPath` option in Unity Web.
    ([UUM-87753](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-typeerror-cannot-read-properties-of-undefined-reading-length-error-is-thrown-when-starting-the-player-when-config-dot-autosyncpersistentdatapath-is-set-to-true))

- Web: Fixed skipping WebGPU context initialization if WebGPU is disabled in the build.
    (UUM-86045)

- Web: Fixed the UncaughtReference error for the diagnostics_icon in the Web Diagnostics Overlay in mobile browser.
    (UUM-83001)

- Web: Fixed web browser to not hang when using Autoconnect Profiler with Build and Run, when the Unity project is set to log large amounts of text at web page startup. Note however that there will still exist a platform-specific limitation that only about 45000 log messages can be printed back-to-back at web page startup, or otherwise the message send queue gets full. If more than 45000 log messages need to be printed back to the Editor, they should be done at page runtime after PlayerConnection has initialized, to avoid this WebSocket limitation.
    ([UUM-79682](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-player-hangs-on-first-frame-when-autoconnect-profiler-is-enabled-and-large-amount-of-profiler-data-is-buffered-before-the-first-frame))

- Web: Fixed WebGL errors when heap was larger than 2 GB.
    ([UUM-85702](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-error-when-over-2gb-memory-consumption))

- Web: Improved error message in abort handler.
    ([UUM-83890](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-unclear-error-when-gzip-compressed-data-or-webassembly-dont-have-correct-http-headers))

- WebGL: Fix choppy video playback when using more than one Render Texture to play a video in Linear Color Space.
    ([UUM-79894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/only-the-first-video-in-webgl-plays-smoothly-when-linear-color-space-is-used))

- WebGL: Fixed a \[WebGPU\] issue with SubPass rendering due to incorrect viewport.

- WebGL: Fixed an issue where a black screen rendered for some Android devices when Splash screen was disabled and Linear color is used.
    ([UUM-77046](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-android-black-screen-on-some-android-devices-when-show-splash-screen-is-disabled-in-the-project-settings))

- WebGL: Fixed URP Lit shaders from failing on mobile devices with Adreno GPUs.
    ([UUM-86919](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-urp-built-in-lit-and-complex-lit-shaders-do-not-get-rendered-in-the-webgl-application-for-androids-with-the-adreno-gpus))

- WebGL: Fixed video playing issue in WebGL when another video was still loading in Firefox.
    ([UUM-79406](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/av1-videos-do-not-play-in-webgl-when-another-video-is-still-loading-and-firefox-browser-is-used))

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Enabled stencil only views of depth RenderTextures.

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fix Compile and Show Shader for WebGPU shaders.

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fixed a data race issue with copying and uploading textures.

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fixed AsyncGPUReadback for textures when request format is specified.
    (UUM-85988)

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fixed mip map generation for textures with an unfilterable texture format.

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fixed render error from shadergraph shaders with 3D textures.

- Windows: Corrected explicit mention of x64 for WindowsStandalone BuildTarget, it used for all 64-bit Windows Standalone targets.
    (UUM-87185)

- Windows: Fixed an issue where change in the default icon isn't refreshed by the Windows Explorer when re-building a project into the previously used build folder.
    ([UUM-71022](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-the-default-icon-does-not-change-the-executables-icon-when-re-building-the-project))

- Windows: On Windows, we reduced how often we re-enumerate the list of audio devices, which causes a main thread stall. If an audio output device is added or removed, but the default device does not change, then we no longer re-enumerate. If an audio input device is added or removed, we defer the re-enumerate operation until the Unity app actually requests the updated list of microphones via C\#.
    ([UUM-75603](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-player-lags-when-an-audio-device-is-connected-slash-disconnected-while-the-default-audio-source-of-the-device-stays-the-same))

- XR: Added back in support for X64 specific Editor plugins

- XR: Addressing the Meta Core SDK not loading when attempting to play in editor over Oculus Link.
    ([UUM-71393](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-input-is-not-registered-and-headset-view-is-headlocked-after-entering-play-mode-with-meta-xr-sdk-on-6000-dot-0-0b16-and-higher))




#### Preview of Final 6000.1.0a9 Package changes

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.sentis: [2.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.sentis@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.sentis@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.entities: [1.3.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.8](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.netcode: [1.3.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.physics: [1.3.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.physics@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.8](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.physics@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.havok.physics: 1.3.2 to 1.3.8

- com.unity.logging: [1.3.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.logging@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.logging@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.entities.graphics: [1.3.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities.graphics@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities.graphics@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.2d.animation: [10.1.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.animation@10.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [10.1.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.animation@10.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.2d.common: [9.0.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.common@9.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [9.0.7](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.common@9.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.2d.spriteshape: [10.0.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.spriteshape@10.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [10.0.7](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.spriteshape@10.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.2d.tilemap.extras: [4.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.tilemap.extras@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.tilemap.extras@4.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.cinemachine: [2.10.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.10.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.collab-proxy: [2.5.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.collab-proxy@2.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.6.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.collab-proxy@2.6//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.ide.rider: [3.0.31](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ide.rider@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.0.34](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ide.rider@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.inputsystem: [1.11.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.11//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.11.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.11//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.localization: [1.5.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.localization@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.5.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.localization@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.mobile.notifications: [2.3.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.mobile.notifications@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.mobile.notifications@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.analytics: [6.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.analytics@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.analytics@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.authentication: [3.3.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.authentication@3.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.authentication@3.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.cloudcode: [2.7.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloudcode@2.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.8.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloudcode@2.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.core: [1.13.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.core@1.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.14.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.core@1.14//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.economy: [3.4.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.economy@3.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.5.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.economy@3.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.leaderboards: [2.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.leaderboards@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.2.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.leaderboards@2.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.push-notifications: [4.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.push-notifications@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.push-notifications@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.splines: [2.6.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.6//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.7.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.visualscripting: [1.9.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualscripting@1.9//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.9.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualscripting@1.9//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arcore: [6.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arcore@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arcore@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arfoundation: [6.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arfoundation@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arfoundation@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arkit: [6.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arkit@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arkit@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.core-utils: [2.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.core-utils@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.core-utils@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.oculus: [4.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@4.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@4.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.openxr: [1.12.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.13.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.learn.iet-framework: [4.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.transport: [2.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.transport@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.transport@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.dedicated-server: [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.dedicated-server@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.dedicated-server@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.ai.navigation: [2.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ai.navigation@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ai.navigation@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.deployment: [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.deployment.api: [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment.api@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment.api@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.tooling: [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.tooling@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.2.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.tooling@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64: [2.0.9](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.10](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux-x86_64: [2.0.9](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.10](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux-x86_64: [2.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux-x86_64: [2.0.9](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.10](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux-x86_64@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux-x86_64: [1.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux-x86_64@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.0.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux-x86_64@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.microsoft.gdk: [1.2.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.microsoft.gdk.tools: [1.2.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk.tools@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk.tools@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.levelplay: [8.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.levelplay@8.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [8.5.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.levelplay@8.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.multiplayer: [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.multiplayer@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.multiplayer@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.asset-manager-for-unity: [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.asset-manager-for-unity@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.2.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.asset-manager-for-unity@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

**Packages added**

- [com.unity.services.moderation@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.moderation@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- [com.unity.microsoft.gdk.discovery@1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk.discovery@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

**Packages deprecated**

- com.unity.live-capture - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.sequences - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.scripting.python - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.scripting.python.windows - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.scripting.python.macos - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.scripting.python.linux - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."