### Known Issues in 6000.1.0a2

- Lighting: Spot light with high Outer Spot Angle produces artefacts/clipping when using the Forward+ Rendering Path
    ([UUM-85566](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spot-light-with-high-outer-spot-angle-produces-artefacts-slash-clipping-when-using-the-forward-plus-rendering-path))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where mass distribution updates with regards to setting the center of mass for a Rigidbody component would not affect WheelCollider components.
    ([UUM-84990](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vehicle-body-is-lifted-way-above-wheels-containing-a-wheelcollider-component-when-entering-play-mode))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a3.*

- Shader System: Shaders are always recompiled when the Editor is opened
    ([UUM-75262](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-are-always-recompiled-when-the-editor-is-opened))

- TextMeshPro: Fix TMP crash on Hyphen wrapping
    ([UUM-84379](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-hangs-when-rendering-tmp-text-component-with-left-and-right-margins-set-in-the-extra-settings))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a3.*

- Undo System: Mark array size changes to keep duplicates within a single undo action
    (UUM-84565)    <br>*Fixed in 6000.1.0a3.*

- 



### Preview of Final 6000.1.0a2 Release Notes

#### Features

- 2D: Added an option to disable field editing in Sprite Editor to prevent accidental edit.

- Editor: Added graphics settings overrides to build profiles.

- Editor: Added support for Facebook Instant Games.

- Graphics: Introduce a new C\# `API RayTracingAccelerationStructure.AddInstancesIndirect` to specify ray tracing instance transformation matrices using a GraphicsBuffer.

- UI Toolkit: Improved the workflow for authoring variables in the Builder.

- WebGL: WebGPU is now officially available as one of the graphics APIs for the Web Player.

- XR: The Meta Quest Platform is now available in the Build Profiles window.



#### Improvements

- Editor: Add array slice and mipmap info  to the render graph debugger.

- Editor: Added extra validation to the render graph texture descriptor to avoid silently failing when a user tried to create  an invalid texture.

- Editor: libcurl used by Unity update to version 8.10.1.

- HDRP: Wizard - Simplify list of validations for IRenderPipelineGraphicsSettings.
    (UUM-77499)

- IL2CPP: \[RequireDerived\] and \[RequireImplementors\] will now mark all instance constructors of all types that they cause to be marked.

- Package Manager: Concurrent operations made via the `UnityEditor.PackageManager.Client` class will now be processed sequentially instead of failing with a concurrency error.

- Serialization: Improved performance of reading texture data embedded in text files \(yes, text files\).

- Shaders: Improved shader compilation logging in the player.
    ([UUM-79781](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/log-shader-compilation-does-not-give-info-on-which-shader-instance-had-a-variant-compiled))



#### API Changes

- Physics: Deprecated: Rigidbody.SetDensity has been deprecated, please use Rigidbody.mass instead to achieve the same simulation behavior.



#### Changes

- Android: Unity now uses `WindowInsetsController` and `setDecorFitsSystemWindows` APIs on Android 11 or newer versions instead of `setSystemUiVisibility` API. This affects the behavior of Unity APIs: Fullscreen Mode, Hide Navigation Bar, and Render outside safe area. The application appearance remains the same on devices using Android 10 or older compared to Android 11 or newer versions.

- Asset Import: Updated error message for AAC audio imports when file contains 2048 samples or less.
    ([UUM-72024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dot-wav-and-ogg-audio-files-cant-be-imported-to-the-project-when-the-webgl-build-profile-is-selected))

- Editor: Physics: Revert fix for small body tunnelling at high \(~200Hz\) simulation frequencies. If effected please use recommended workaround \(decrease ccd threshold to slightly under 1/4 of the half-extent of the scene's smallest object\)



#### Fixes

- 2D: Fixed issue where Tile Palettes with Hexagonal Flat Top layouts are drawn incorrectly as Hexagonal Point Top layout.
    ([UUM-83525](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hexagonal-flat-top-palette-tiles-appear-rotated-90-degrees-clockwise-when-observing-the-tile-palette-window))

- AI: Links were not generated in places where the NavMesh forms a ramp.
    ([UUM-78145](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmeshlinks-are-not-generated-when-using-generate-links))

- Android: Added dotnet webrequest feature for automatic internet access permission.
    ([UUM-83355](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-error-nameresolutionfailure-when-internet-access-is-set-to-auto))

- Android: Added the `BaseUnityGameActivityTheme.Translucent` theme for GameActivity.

- Android: Fixed a crash that occurs on GameActivity with Vulkan when the device is rotated during video playback launched through  `Handheld.PlayFullScreenMovie`.
    (UUM-77512)

- Android: Fixed an issue so that the Editor.log now contains an entry on how the application is launched. For example, `adb.exe -s "FA7A31A08307" shell am start -a android.intent.action.MAIN -c android.intent.category.LAUNCHER -f 0x10200000 -S -n "com.DefaultCompany.GameActivity/com.unity3d.player.UnityPlayerActivity"`.
    (UUM-84923)

- Android: Ignore harmless warnings coming from sdkmanager - "Errors during XML parse:", "Additionally, the fallback loader failed to parse the XML."

- Android: Unity no longer sets the theme attribute for application manifest in `unityLibrary` manifest. That means there's no default theme for activities and you're responsible for applying theme to your custom activities. This is because, there's no valid default theme which can be applied for both Activity and GameActivity at the same time.
    ([UUM-80017](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-player-silently-crashes-and-the-java-dot-lang-dot-illegalstateexception-you-need-to-use-a-theme-dot-appcompat-theme-or-descendant-with-this-activity-error-is-logged-when-the-render-over-native-ui-setting-is-enabled))

- Android: Updated game frame pacing `androidx.games:games-frame-pacing` package version  to 2.1.2.
    ([UUM-77169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-player-application-freezes-and-crashes-when-minimizing-and-maximizing-the-application-via-the-recents-screen))

- Animation: Fixed invalid default values of animated parameters in animator controller.
    ([UUM-73614](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-animation-curve-range-is-not-applied-properly))

- Audio: Fixed error in in editor window for the AudioRandomContainer asset when undoing removal of an list element that was done in play mode after going back to edit mode.
    ([UUM-55847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-arc-audio-clip-entry-reference-is-lost-when-undoing-edits-made-in-play-mode))

- Cache Server: Fixed the crash while importing the Assets from Accelerator when it is disconnected.
    (UUM-76355)

- Documentation: Ensure that the scripting API docs distinguish between "Classes" and "Structs" in the hierarchy.

- Editor: Added additional check to GraphicsSettings if URP or HDRP asset is a missing type.
    ([UUM-79997](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-nullreferenceexception-error-is-thrown-when-trying-to-add-tags-and-layers-when-urp-settings-are-present-in-the-project-with-a-broken-universalrp-asset))

- Editor: Adding an 'Include all scripts' checkbox option to the export window allows users to choose whether to include all project scripts in the export list. This serves as the initial step before addressing the script dependency issue.
    ([UUM-46345](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/items-that-are-not-referenced-in-scene-are-selected-when-exporting-scenes-package))

- Editor: Disable SRP batcher on the AssetImportWorker.
    ([UUM-77344](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-previews-in-the-project-window-sometimes-show-incorrectly))

- Editor: Do not accumulate vertical/horizontal scroll deltas for IMGUI events being triggered from native code.
    (UUM-79079)

- Editor: F-key functionality restored, and menu items enable/disable correctly.
    ([UUM-83883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ubuntu-cant-type-the-letter-f))

- Editor: Fixed 'Open Download Page' in the platform browser/Build Profile window leads to insecure download for editor not installed through Unity Hub.
    (UUM-84171)

- Editor: Fixed a crach with GRD and GPU Occlusion culling.
    ([UUM-83152](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-gfxdeviced3d11base-drawbuffersbatchmode-when-rendering-the-scene-view))

- Editor: Fixed a crash caused by a \(rare\) failure to initialize NetworkListManager COM interface.
    (UUM-83823)

- Editor: Fixed a crash when the UI option "Remove unused properties" is clicked on the default material.
    ([UUM-61599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-crash-on-material-removeunusedproperties-when-removing-unused-material-properties))

- Editor: Fixed a null reference exception on macOS when modifying textures to mark them as normal maps through the NormalMap setting dialog.
    ([UUM-80063](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missingreferenceexception-after-clicking-fix-now-on-normalmap-settings))

- Editor: Fixed a null reference that would occur when converting Inspector Preview to a floating window.
    ([UUM-79366](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-error-is-logged-in-console-when-converting-inspectors-preview-to-floating-window))

- Editor: Fixed Additional Compiler argument not updating when switching tabs in Player Settings window or when selecting different platforms in Build Settings window.
    ([UUM-66839](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/additional-compiler-argument-is-not-displayed-in-the-project-settings-android-settings-tab-if-other-than-android-platform-is-selected-in-the-build-settings))

- Editor: Fixed an issue to maintain consistency between different font sizes in the Hierarchy and Scene view windows.
    (UUM-78943)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Screen Space Shadows did not work on Decals.
    ([UUM-81517](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-space-decals-stop-receiving-shadows-when-screen-space-shadows-is-enabled-and-rendering-path-is-set-to-forward-or-forwads-plus))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the editor would incorrectly mark some objects as dirty in some cases.
    (UUM-83944)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the restart editor prompt for Graphics Jobs Mode appeared when switching between Windows and other platforms.
    (UUM-83947)

- Editor: Fixed Build profile window refreshed every frame on Android.
    (UUM-83850)

- Editor: Fixed debug rendering error when rebaking APV with disk streaming enabled.
    (UUM-73635)

- Editor: Fixed duplicate separators appearing in the game object hierarchy menu.
    ([UUM-83272](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-separators-in-hierarchy-light-context-menu))

- Editor: Fixed Editor errors caused when "RGB + 1-bit Alpha Compressed ETC2 4 bits" compression is used.
    ([UUM-65395](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-libetc-init-when-changing-webgl-texture-format-to-rgb-plus-1-bit-alpha-compressed-etc2-4-bits))

- Editor: Fixed issues where the TextureImporterInspector could sometimes fail to retrieve texture platform settings for platforms with more than one valid internal name \(example: "iPhone" / "iOS"\).
    ([UUM-73858](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-when-selecting-a-sprite-with-a-custom-default-textureimporter-preset))

- Editor: Fixed NullReferenceException when Target of the RenderFunc is null.

- Editor: Fixed random editor freeze when generating lighting.
    ([UUM-84915](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lighting-generation-freezes-the-editor-during-the-global-illumination-post-processing-stage-when-baking-lighting-on-certain-systems))

- Editor: Fixed rendering issues for XRSettings.renderViewportScale when using Vulkan.
    ([UUM-83765](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quest-visual-distortions-in-the-top-half-of-the-screen-when-changing-resolution-scale-for-player-built-with-vulkan))

- Editor: Fixed the drag line of the splitter not sticking to the mouse position
    ([UUM-79619](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-settings-vertical-separator-position-is-not-synchronized-with-the-mouse-position-when-dragging-it-horizontally))

- Editor: Fixed the over-clamping of delta time value applied to "unity_DeltaTime".
    ([UUM-35772](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-global-shader-variable-unity-deltatime-dot-x-value-does-not-match-the-time-dot-deltatime-value-when-compared-via-script))

- Editor: Fixes DeviceSimulator to implement Touch.rawPosition to return the starting position of the simulated touch contact.
    ([UUM-58248](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/touch-dot-rawposition-always-returns-00-when-clicking-or-dragging-anywhere-on-the-screen-in-the-play-mode))

- Editor: Wizard - Some validations were showing the fix button when it was not needed.
    ([UUM-78839](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-wizard-fix-buttons-have-no-functionality-when-setting-up-hdrp-plus-dxr))

- Editor: \[URP\]\[RG\] Incorrect partial blur when using RenderGraph in URP
    ([UUM-79602](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-partial-blur-when-using-rendergraph-in-urp))

- GI: Fixed a negative loop iteration count on Switch.
    (UUM-83610)

- GI: Fixed an issue where Adaptive Probe Volumes could not be baked when the chosen graphics library is GLES.

- GI: Fixed an issue where sampling of Adaptive Probe Volumes was incorrect when using leak reduction modes on GLES.
    (UUM-82539)

- GI: Fixed to remove the loaded data when a temporary baking set is created.
    (UUM-73654)

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when using native graphics jobs on Metal.
    ([UUM-44469](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-crashes-without-stack-frames-in-metal-submission-thread-on-macos-when-graphics-jobs-are-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed a problem with Texture Streaming where a material could remain blurry and not streamed in for an undefined amount of time.
    ([UUM-73384](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-material-variant-is-rendered-blurry-after-reopening-unity-when-the-mipmap-streaming-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed a rare crash on certain Samsung devices when running GLES.
    (UUM-29705)

- Graphics: Fixed an Issue where resizing the SceneView would throw errors.
    ([UUM-83527](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendertexture-create-failed-errors-are-shown-in-the-console-when-the-scene-window-is-shrunk-with-bloom-intensity-set-to-1))

- Graphics: Fixed glFramebufferTexture2DMultisampleEXT failure on Adreno drivers when per-format max MSAA limit exceeds global max MSAA limit.
    (UUM-76807)

- Graphics: Fixed GPUResidentDrawer crash in ParallelSortExtensions.ParallelSort because of an array being diposed while still used by some jobs.
    ([UUM-83578](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-parallelsortextensions-parallelsort))

- Graphics: Fixed GPUResidentDrawer deadlock because of a double dispose of CPUSharedInstanceData.materialIDArrays.
    (UUM-83561)

- Graphics: Fixed GPUResidentDrawer Editor crash on Metal when occluderDepthPyramidKernels compute shader import fails.
    (UUM-84509)

- Graphics: Fixed msaa resolves of SetRenderTarget-based rending not being done before beginning a new renderpass.
    ([UUM-72239](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fullscreen-blit-is-not-working-when-render-graph-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed SRP Batcher checking the against the active render pipeline causing incorrect bindings
    ([UUM-77168](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragon-crashers-ui-toolkit-has-a-corrupted-profile-icon-in-player))

- Graphics: The Render pass API was sometimes erroneously considering a configuration that was valid as invalid when rendering to array slices or mipmaps.

- HDRP: Ensure custom post-processing effects are disabled when post-processing is disabled.
    (UUM-78486)

- HDRP: Fixed advanced upsampler settings not visible on platforms where they are not supported.
    (UUM-84078)

- HDRP: Fixed HairVertex instancing-related shader-compilation issues.
    ([UUM-84231](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hair-is-not-visible-in-player-when-hq-line-renderer-is-enabled-in-the-minimal-hair-sample))

- HDRP: Fixed layer index out of range in LayeredLitGUI.
    ([UUM-71157](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/layer-lit-4th-layer-not-working))

- HDRP: Ignore material variants with log message.
    (UUM-72639)

- IL2CPP: Fixed crash when creating too many threads.
    (UUM-78115)

- Input System: Fixed an internal Unity issue that could cause the Input System package to stop processing data from devices.
    ([UUM-85315](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-is-not-received-after-some-time-when-using-a-gamepad))

- iOS: Fixed the Use On-Demand Resources player setting so it can be overridden when using a build profile.
    (UUM-84440)

- License: Updated Licensing Client to 1.16.0.

- macOS: Fixed an issue with \[Application.targetFrameRate\]\(ScriptRef:Application-targetFrameRate\) so it's now ignored if the value of \[QualitySettings.vSyncCount\]\(ScriptRef:QualitySettings-vSyncCount\) is greater than 0.
    ([UUM-83568](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vsynccount-is-ignored-on-macos-standalone-player))

- Networking: Fixed an issue where TLS connections would fail to be established after a certain time/number.
    ([UUM-83744](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tlsexception-handshake-failed-error-code-unitytls-internal-error-error-when-a-lot-of-web-requests-are-sent-within-a-few-minutes))

- Package Manager: Dependency resolution no longer breaks when there is a dependency on a core package with a different version. Instead, the Package Manager will use the built-in package version. It is possible to preserve the previous behaviour and override specific core packages with a version pulled from a custom scoped registry by adding the following to the scoped registry configuration: `"overrideBuiltIns": true`.

- Package Manager: Fix the issue where using the 'Window.Open" API to select a package would silently fails when it is hidden by "Show PreRelease Package Versions" setting.
    (UUM-82771)

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where the refresh timestamp does not get updated when users click on `Refresh List` button.
    ([UUM-77972](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/last-update-time-is-not-refreshed-when-clicking-the-refresh-list-button))

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue with the overflow of tabs dropdown icon.
    (UUM-79591)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where incorrect registry info is shown for packages that do not belong to any registry.
    (UUM-84168)

- Particles: Scheduling a Particle System job outside of MonoBehaviour.OnParticleUpdateJobScheduled\(\) will now generate an InvalidOperationException in order to prevent incorrect job schedules which could cause a hang.
    ([UUM-79599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freezes-slash-hangs-when-calling-schedulebatch-for-ijobparticlesystemparallelforbatch))

- Physics: Fixed a race condition inside Physics Debugger's contacts tab. Where the underlying contacts array would be incorrectly passed onto new jobs while still in use inside the previous set of contacts display jobs.
    (PHYS-387)

- Physics: Fixed an issue where Physics Debugger wouldn't take physics shape scale into account when rendering.
    ([UUM-83050](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-physics-debugger-displays-incorrect-collision-volume-when-compared-to-its-collider-bounds))

- Physics: Fixed an issue with the Cloth component's inspector where exiting play-mode with the self and inter collision tool open would cause a null reference exception.
    ([UUM-78853](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-and-cannot-modify-overlay-dot-displayed-during-event-of-type-eventtype-dot-layout-shown-when-entering-the-play-mode-with-self-collision-and-inter-collision-window-focused))

- Physics: Fixed CharacterJoint's derrived axis locks being ignored. This would cause some ragdoll setups for never come to rest during simulation.
    ([UUM-83156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/character-joints-unexpectedly-rotate-when-a-ragdoll-is-created-using-the-ragdoll-wizard))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where custom tool buttons in the Tools overlay would unnecessarily consume GPU resources every editor frame.
    ([UUM-84132](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gpu-utilization-increases-when-a-gameobject-is-selected))

- Scene/Game View: Reduced the state update time for custom tool buttons in the Tools overlay.
    (UUM-84264)

- Search: Ensure SearchViewItem doesn't modify SearchItem state.
    ([UUM-79399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/select-preset-inspector-header-background-changes-size-between-none-and-create-new-preset-with-no-change-in-content))

- Search: Ensure SearchViewItem doesn't modify SearchItem state.
    ([UUM-79646](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/select-preset-none-icon-changes-after-switching-tabs))

- Search: Fixed Audio Mixer asset icons in the Search window.
    ([UUM-73173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-mixer-assets-are-using-the-wrong-icons-in-search))

- Search: Fixed Scene Provider search when a string property is a numerical value.
    ([UUM-69142](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-results-are-not-displayed-when-a-string-property-is-a-numeric-value))

- Search: Search Scene Selector shows file with unity in their name.
    ([UUM-83640](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-scene-selector-shows-file-with-unity-in-their-name))

- Search: Using ReuseWindow SearchFlags won't create a new window and won't change its position.
    ([UUM-75480](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-open-search-all-window-will-move-to-newest-additional-window-when-accessing))

- Shadergraph: Added missing documentation about the Custom Render Texture in Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-76730](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-documentation-page-on-custom-render-texture-shadergraph))

- Shadergraph: Added new manipulator for ShaderGraph MainPreview to fix wrong drag handing on OSX.
    ([UUM-76223](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-shader-graph-main-preview-is-rotated-on-mouse-movement-after-changing-the-main-preview-type))

- Shadergraph: Fixed a bug that a shader graph is reverted to its last saved state when entering Play Mode without saving changes.
    ([UUM-49399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-is-reverted-to-its-primary-state-when-entering-play-mode-without-saving-changes))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where the Main Light Direction node always returned 0 on the built-in render pipeline.
    ([UUM-78803](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-main-light-direction-node-in-the-shader-graph-does-not-output-light-direction-for-directional-light-when-used-with-the-built-in-render-pipeline))

- Shadergraph: \[Metal\] Fix shader compilation errors due to Foveated Rendering when building URP 3D template.
    (UUM-77815)

- Shaders: Fixed a crash that could occur when a shadow caster pass is deleted due to shader errors.
    (UUM-82622)

- Shaders: Fixed BiRP support for strict shader variant matching.
    ([UUM-58290](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-is-missing-when-strict-shader-variant-matching-is-enabled-in-the-player-settings))

- Shaders: Fixed compute shader compilation variant cache hits to be reported correctly in the editor log.
    ([UUM-75264](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-cache-is-not-used-when-building-the-player-repeatedly))

- Shaders: Shader inspector now shows the highest number of variants per shader stage instead of number of vertex stage variants.
    ([UUM-55971](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-inspector-of-a-shader-asset-does-not-show-the-correct-number-of-vertex-and-fragment-shader-variants-when-using-multi-compile-fragment-directive))

- SpeedTree: Importer error for .st files when there are special characters in the file path.
    ([UUM-83783](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/speedtree-importer-fails-to-import-st-files-when-path-to-the-project-includes-a-special-character))

- SRP Core: Fixed an issue where Lens Flare was not rendering properly in OpenGLES3.
    (UUM-84431)

- SRP Core: Fixed render graph incorrectly handling rendering to array slices and mipmaps other than 0 in some cases.
    (UUM-77828)

- TextCore: Fixed an ATG crash that would occur with static FontAsset.
    (UUM-78094)

- TextMeshPro: Fixed color picker not being the same color as the Text in the scene.
    ([UUM-77652](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-color-in-the-inspector-is-different-than-the-gameobject-in-the-scene-when-changing-the-material-face-color))

- TextMeshPro: Updated "Examples and Extras" scenes to be compatible with URP and HDRP.
    ([UUM-74205](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-examples-and-extras-scene-24-shaders-broken))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue so VisualElement hovered style properly rendered in the first frame.
    (UUM-82985)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed AttributeOverrides overriding attributes that were only included in the templated asset. This would also cause asset references to be lost if they were not explicitly overriden.
    ([UUM-84102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-broken-direct-asset-reference-overrides))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed labels alignment for IMGUI containers.
    ([UUM-70643](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serialized-field-is-indented-too-much-in-the-inspector-when-customeditor-is-used))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed serialization of UxmlAttributes for Lists and Arrays of unity objects.
    (UUM-83779)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the slider fill element when showing inverted.
    ([UUM-83599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-slider-fill-option-doesnt-invert-when-inverted-option-is-selected))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the UI Builder Learn More URL so it includes the correct version of the Editor.
    ([UUM-77080](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/stylesheets-learn-more-hyperlink-links-to-lts-documentation-instead-of-the-editor-version-that-is-in-use))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Builder not displaying the name of some elements in the hierarchy when they did not use UxmlElement or UxmlFactory.
    (UUM-84170)

- UI Toolkit: The UXML file importer will now show a button to fix issues with any file paths that have changed but can still be resolved via their guid. Importer errors/warnings can now also be seen in the assets inspector.
    ([UUM-83531](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-icon-image-path-in-a-uxml-file-is-not-updated-when-a-texture-is-renamed-or-moved-after-modifying-and-saving-the-uxml-file-in-the-ui-builder))

- Universal RP: Fixed a redundant empty line in a tooltip for Cast Shadows toggle in the URP Asset for Additional lights.
    ([UUM-83534](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/redundant-empty-space-on-tooltip-for-cast-shadows-option-for-additional-lights))

- Universal RP: Fixed a warning, "Missing types referenced from component UniversalRenderPipelineGlobalSettings..." which was caused by the URP Template project on platforms where ENABLE_VR is not defined.
    ([UUM-82247](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-types-referenced-from-component-universalrenderpipelineglobalsettings-on-game-object-universalrenderpipelineglobalsettings-dot-dot-dot-warning-is-thrown-after-switching-the-platform-to-tvos))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where WorldToCamera matrix wasn't set before rendering shadows.
    ([UUM-84287](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-shadows-affected-by-custom-shaders-change-their-scale-and-position-when-the-scene-camera-is-adjusted))

- Universal RP: Fixed black pixels \(NaN\) in Lens Distort post-processing effect.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed incorrectly bright pixels by clamping alpha after additive blending to 0-1 range in post-processing when using camera stacking with render scale.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed invalid alpha output for scaling setup shader when using camera stacking with render scale on URP compatibility path.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed invalid viewport for post-process when using camera stacking with render scale.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed post-process FSR upscaling and _ScreenParams for stacked Overlay cameras.
    (UUM-65584)

- Universal RP: Fixed spamming errors and broken visual when resizing GameView with Free Aspect in DepthBlit sample.
    ([UUM-84029](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-slash-game-view-visually-breaks-and-console-is-spammed-with-errors-when-using-depthblit-sample-scene))

- Universal RP: Optimized finalblit pass load operation bandwidth cost for XR.
    (UUM-60997)

- Universal RP: Remove "AssertionException The RenderTextureDescriptor used to create a TextureDesc contains both graphicsFormat and depthStencilFormat".
    (UUM-84871)

- Universal Windows Platform: Stop reading mdb symbol files during player builds.
    ([UUM-79478](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-fails-with-il2cpp-error-when-building-for-uwp))

- Universal Windows Platform: When graphics jobs are enabled in Universal Windows Platform, Split graphics jobs are used instead of Native jobs with DX12.
    (UUM-77903)

- Version Control: UnityYAMLMerge is now able to open files when using long file paths on Windows.
    ([UUM-77908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unityyamlmerge-cannot-open-files-when-using-long-file-paths-on-windows))

- VFX Graph: Creating a Custom HLSL operator with two outputs could prevent the generated shader from compiling
    ([UUM-83676](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-custom-hlsl-operator-with-two-output-parameters-function-duplicates-its-code))

- VFX Graph: Fixed VFX particles GBuffer pass with URP Render Graph.
    ([UUM-83385](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spot-slash-point-lights-do-not-affect-vfx-graph-output-when-compatibility-mode-render-graph-disabled-is-disabled))

- VFX Graph: Incorrect sanitization of SetCustomAttribute when Random was different than Random.Off
    ([UUM-83598](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-random-value-option-in-the-set-attribute-block-gets-disabled-and-the-b-slash-max-value-lost-when-upgrading-to-unity-6))

- VFX Graph: Missing delayed field for Sample Water Surface Operator.
    ([UUM-84054](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-input-field-freezes-when-editing-sample-water-surface-node-vfx-graph))

- VFX Graph: Particle outputs connected to particle strip systems don't render last particle.
    ([UUM-84424](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/disrepancy-between-shadergraph-and-vanilla-outputs-when-using-indexinstrip))

- VFX Graph: Unexpected log "Expression graph was marked as dirty after compiling context for UI" while using Custom HLSL based operators.
    ([UUM-84060](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-the-error-expression-graph-was-marked-as-dirty-after-compiling-context-for-ui-is-thrown-after-editing-sample-water-surface-node))

- VFX Graph: Using the same name as a built-in attribute in a custom HLSL function's parameter would lead to a compilation error.
    ([UUM-83782](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-hsls-redefinition-error-when-input-have-the-same-name-as-attributes))

- Video: Fixed Video with transparency having artifacts on the border of the sprite.
    ([UUM-74644](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-artifacts-in-video-file-on-android-player))

- Video: Updating WebCamTextures on some Android devices may have resulted in errors due to re-initializing already initialized graphics textures - this has been fixed so that initialization is skipped when unnecessary.
    (UUM-84151)

- Web: Fixed the UncaughtReference error for the diagnostics_icon in the Web Diagnostics Overlay in mobile browser.
    (UUM-83001)

- Web: Fixed web browser to not hang when using Autoconnect Profiler with Build and Run, when the Unity project is set to log large amounts of text at web page startup. Note however that there will still exist a platform-specific limitation that only about 45000 log messages can be printed back-to-back at web page startup, or otherwise the message send queue gets full. If more than 45000 log messages need to be printed back to the Editor, they should be done at page runtime after PlayerConnection has initialized, to avoid this WebSocket limitation.
    ([UUM-79682](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-player-hangs-on-first-frame-when-autoconnect-profiler-is-enabled-and-large-amount-of-profiler-data-is-buffered-before-the-first-frame))

- WebGL: Fix choppy video playback when using more than one Render Texture to play a video in Linear Color Space.
    ([UUM-79894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/only-the-first-video-in-webgl-plays-smoothly-when-linear-color-space-is-used))

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Fix Compile and Show Shader for WebGPU shaders.

- XR: Added back in support for X64 specific Editor plugins

- XR: Addressing the Meta Core SDK not loading when attempting to play in editor over Oculus Link.
    ([UUM-71393](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xr-input-is-not-registered-and-headset-view-is-headlocked-after-entering-play-mode-with-meta-xr-sdk-on-6000-dot-0-0b16-and-higher))




#### Preview of Final 6000.1.0a2 Package changes

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.cinemachine: [2.10.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.10.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.ide.rider: [3.0.31](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ide.rider@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.0.34](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ide.rider@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.inputsystem: [1.11.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.11//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.11.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.11//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.localization: [1.5.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.localization@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.5.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.localization@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.analytics: [6.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.analytics@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.analytics@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.openxr: [1.12.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.13.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.deployment.api: [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment.api@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment.api@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.multiplayer: [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.multiplayer@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.multiplayer@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

**Packages added**

- [com.unity.services.moderation@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.moderation@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)