2018.1.0b7 Release Notes (diff since 2018.1.0b6)
------------------------------------------------

### System Requirements Changes

*   Removed support for Windows XP in standalone player builds. Windows Vista is the now minimum supported OS for Windows standalone player.
*   Deprecated support for MonoDevelop. VisualStudio is now the recommended and supported C# editor on both macOS and Windows.

### Known Issues in 2018.1.0b7

*   Animation: Configure button doesn't get enabled when the model rig is set to humanoid (984843)
    
*   Animation: Null Reference exception occurs when trying to add/delete the event or changing sample number. (989758)
    
*   Audio: \[Audio Mixer\] Crash on play when duplicated audio group is assigned to audio source (962084)
    
*   GI: AddInstancePropertiesJob error while baking with specific assets (973689)
    
*   GI: Progressive lightmapper doesn't work on Linux, which means that all 3D templates will crash on launch. The 2D template is not affected however.
    
*   GI: Skybox material is retained even after being removed from lighting settings (999227)
    
*   OSX: \[OSX 10.13\] Switching between 2 game view tabs multiple times freezes editor (991828)
    
*   Particles: Line renderer is rendered in scene/game window when selecting object in the Project window ([972298](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/line-renderer-is-render-in-scene-slash-game-window-when-selecting-object-in-the-project-window))
    
*   Particles: Unity crashes when duplicating/moving nested particle systems with a disabled renderer (988423)
    
*   UI: UI Button changes its position after re-entering the playmode (995548)
    

### API Changes

*   Graphics: `Graphics.ConvertTexture` now supports `RenderTexture` as source.

### Fixes

*   Graphics: Fix for deadlock in graphics command buffer when updating constant buffers. (986772, 995312)

The following are changes and fixes to 2018.1.0 features and regressions...
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Fixes

*   Animation: Fixed case of Editor crashing on `mecanim::animation::SeekClipForward` when setting Sample Rate of Sprite Animation to 0 in custom Animator. ([988154](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-mecanim-animation-seekclipforward-when-setting-sample-rate-of-sprite-animation-to-0-in-custom-animator))
    
*   Animation: Fixed case of missing menu entries in the Curve Editor contextual menu. (984436)
    
*   Animation: Fixed case of weighted keyframes not being evaluated correctly in the Animator. (986008)
    
*   Animation: Fixed case of weighted keyframes not being evaluated correctly in the Particle System. (986384)
    
*   Animation: Fixed case of `Animator.GetBehaviours` returning an empty array after a scene has been saved. ([966082](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-dot-getbehaviours-returns-empty-array-after-a-scene-has-been-saved))
    
*   Animation: Fixed crash when calling `Animator.MatchTarget` without a controller. (969752)
    
*   Animation: Fixed `IndexOutOfRangeException` when adding a key in an AnimationCurve with only one keyframe. ([978950](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-inserting-a-key-to-a-curve-that-has-a-single-key-when-editing-multiple-curves-causes-assertion))
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed `AssetImporterEditor` initialization to make sure the target editor is setup before `OnEnable` or `Awake`. (984843)
    
*   Editor: Fixed a Windows-specific crash in YAMLMerge when trying to merge files. (985604)
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of collapsing Profiler Hierarchy View branch when sub-item was selected in another frame. (988266)
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of profiler graphs drawing below their designated area. (974573)
    
*   Editor: Fixed error when dragging material preset in scene. (995487)
    
*   Editor: Fixed errors when switching to Profiler Hierarchy view from Timeline view.
    
*   Editor: Fixed incorrect compilation of scripts on startup, resulting in erroneous compiler errors and possible freezes. (987611)
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue where opening a project in the Editor would cause Unity to exit the one already open, without opening the new one. ([978204](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/win-opening-project-in-editor-causes-unity-to-terminate-it-without-opening-the-new-one), 996791)
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with UWP build failing when using `.asmdef` assemblies. ([979704](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assembly-definition-files-break-uwp-build))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with `Rider 2017.2.1.app` not being recognized as Rider code editor. We now recognize `Rider*.app`.
    
*   Editor: Fixed various performance issues in YAMLMerge. ([971434](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freeze-on-checking-workspace-has-not-changed-message))
    
*   Graphics: Disabled jobified rendering on graphics devices that don't yet support it. ([985591](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-app-does-not-resume-graphics-context-after-being-minimized-and-maximized-again-if-graphics-jobs-are-enabled))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed case of incorrect shadow culling mode in SRP when in reflection (Shadow must use backface culling mode even in reflection). ([995489](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadow-of-tessellated-object-broken-in-reflection-probe))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Windows-specific crash when compiling complex shaders (by increasing the stacksize on the shader compiler). (993249)
    
*   iOS: Metal: An error is now issued when using `ReadPixels()` and going out of bounds while reading. ([981074](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-crash-in-readpixelstoimage-at-texturereadbackmetal-dot-mm-55), 990593)
    
*   Kernel: Fixed crash when calling `Profiler.EndThreadProfiling()` on a main thread. ([980553](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-profiling-profiler-flushchannels-after-using-profiler-dot-endthreadprofiling))
    
*   Kernel: Fixed very rare assert which could happen on old CPUs: "Assertion failed: Null JobInfo in Steal". (983772)
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed bug where built-in packages (modules) could not be added or removed.
    
*   Package Manager: Fixed issue where pre-release versions of packages would not be displayed.
    
*   Scripting: An error is once again shown as expected when a script assembly cannot be overwritten. (988650)
    
*   Scripting: Fixed case of `UnityEngine.Object` methods and properties resulting in a crash instead of throwing an exception when passing argument null and assigning null. (978580, 992639)
    
*   Scripting: Fixed issue where only assemblies with names starting with "Assembly" were debuggable on IL2CPP platforms.
    
*   Scripting: Fixed issue with MonoScripts for `StateMachineBehaviour` derived classes not being extracted from managed plugins. ([963958](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-a-class-inherits-from-statemachinebehaviour-into-a-dll-unity-does-not-reference-it))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fixed an issue building UWP Player with IL2CPP Scripting Backend that targeted .NET Standard 2.0. (996370)
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Removed the option to target .NET Standard 2.0 from UWP player settings unless the Scripting Runtime Version is Experimental .NET 4.x. (991782)
    
*   Shaders: Fixed bad MOVC operation code generation on some GLSL & Metal shaders. (988727)
    
*   Shaders: Fixed bad swizzles on GLSL & Metal shader image size queries. ([938614](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-changing-graphics-api-to-opengl-a-compute-shader-with-the-imagesize-function-throws-the-errors))
    
*   Shaders: Fixed certain typed buffer load cases on GLSL & Metal shaders. (996468)
    
*   Shaders: Fixed errorneous swizzle insertions on some corner cases on GLSL shader. ([989777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assigning-a-float3-to-surfaceoutputstandard-dot-albedo-causes-compilation-errors-of-the-shader))
    
*   Timeline: Changes to materials during animation recording no longer affect every object using the same material. ([952127](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-changes-to-materials-during-animation-recording-affect-every-object-using-the-same-material), 994628)
    
*   Timeline: Copy-paste track behaviour is now consistent with copy-paste in the hierarchy. (994621)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed case of Animation playable assets being shown in timeline after an undo. (994624)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed case of lost "Add Key" option in the Inspector on Override Tracks. (994625)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed case of playhead getting reset to zero when there a domain reload. (994622)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed case of `ArgumentException` being thrown when resizing Timeline window. ([952571](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentexception-when-resizing-timeline-window))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issue where a copied clip in a different timeline would get saved under the original asset. (994627)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issue where Activation Track Add Clip did not respect the mouse position. (994629)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issue where Override Track would become separated from its parent track if both were selected after drag-and-dropping into Track Group. ([973238](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/override-track-separated-from-parent-track-if-both-selected-after-drag-and-dropping-into-track-group), 994626)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issue where the mouse cursor would get locked in ripple/replace mode on pressing both mouse buttons simultaneously. (994632)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issue whereby hitting both mouse buttons simultaneously while in replace mode would delete the clip. (994631)
    
*   Timeline: Fixed performance issue in Preview mode when duplicating Timeline assets. ([976646](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-duplicated-timeline-asset-causes-very-bad-performance-in-preview), 994630)
    
*   UI: Fix to ensure that `OnEndDrag` is called when dragging and the app loses focus. ([937370](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onenddrag-slash-ienddraghandler-callback-is-not-invoked), 995451)
    
*   UI: Fixed instances where `textureRebuilt` would not be called even though the internal texture was regenerated. ([939853](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/font-dot-texturerebuilt-does-not-always-get-called-when-textures-are-generated), 988312)
    
*   UI: iOS: Corrected processing of touch canceled events. ([973437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/iphone-x-navigating-to-home-will-press-buttons-located-at-the-bottom-of-the-screen))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixed a performance issue when the UWP platform stops recording audio. ([962086](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mixed-reality-unityengine-dot-microphone-dot-start-freezes-an-uwp-build))
    
*   XR: Android: Fixed errors when building for Daydream and Cardboard with Proguard enabled. ([946104](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-exception-while-initializing-googlevr-from-unity-library-using-gradle-build-system-release-build), 991169)
    
*   XR: Fix to improve frame rate on Windows MR when tracking is lost. (994651)
    
*   XR: Fixed case of stabilization plane not getting set correctly via the `SetFocusPointForFrame()` API, resulting in poor hologram stabilization and color separation on HoloLens. (995063)
    

2018.1.0b7 Release Notes (Full)
-------------------------------

### Features

*   2D: \[Experimental\] Added ability for user to add functionality for Sprite editing in the Sprite Editor Window.
    
*   2D: \[Experimental\] Added experimental API to support Sprite animation.
    
*   Android: Added an interface with a callback that is called after the Android Gradle project is generated but before it is built.
    
*   Android: Added ARM64 (also known as AArch64) experimental support.
    
*   Android: Added Sustained Performance Mode setting, which sets a predictable, consistent level of device performance over longer periods of time without thermal throttling. Based on the `SustainedPerformance` API from Google.
    
*   Animation: Added PositionConstraint, RotationConstraint and ScaleConstraint components.
    
*   Animation: Added the AimConstraint component.
    
*   Animation: Added the ParentConstraint component.
    
*   Animation: Added weighted tangent support to AnimationCurve.
    
*   Asset Import: (Also see API changes) Added `OnPreprocessAsset` callback in `AssetPostprocessor`.
    
*   Asset Import: Added support for importing Aim constraints from FBX files.
    
*   Asset Import: Added support for importing Parent constraints from FBX files.
    
*   Asset Import: Added support for importing Point, Orient and Scale constraints from FBX files.
    
*   Asset Import: \[Experimental\] Added experimental API to generate Texture/Sprite from importer settings.
    
*   Audio: Added Google's Resonance Audio plugins.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Added a new API for changing platform icons; it supports platform specific icon kinds(types) and multilayer icons.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Added ability to store and retrieve object references by name through `EditorBuildSettings`.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Added new BuildReport API. Building players and assetbundles will now return a BuildReport object that allows you to query information about the build process and outputs.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Android Build & Run has now target device selection in the build dialog. It allows users to deploy to either a specific single device or to all supported devices simultaneously.
    
*   Cache Server: Added `-CacheServerIPAddress` command line argument to connect Editor to specified Cache Server on startup.
    
*   Editor: Added Templates for 3D, 2D, Lightweight (Preview), Lightweight VR (Preview), and High Definition (Preview) to streamline the new user experience with Scriptable Render Pipeline features as well as to define better starting points for graphical, player, and lighting settings. Note that these are not yet easily selectable - this will come soon via an update to the Launcher.
    
*   Editor: Assembly Definition Files (asmdef) assemblies are now compiled on startup before any other scripts (Assembly-CSharp.dll and friends) and compilation does not stop on the first compile error. All asmdef assemblies that succesfully compile and have all their references compiled are loaded before compiling the remaining scripts (Assembly-CSharp.dll and friends). This ensures that Unity packages are always built and and loaded regardless of other compile errors in the project.
    
*   Editor: New ObjectFactory API that allow to create Object using default values - See ScriptingAPI and Presets for more details.
    
*   Editor: Preset class that allow to save serialized informations of an Object to a .preset asset and apply it later to the same Object type.
    
*   Editor: The profiler window now contains a 'clear on play' button.
    
*   Editor: When running PlayMode and EditMode tests in batch mode it is now possible to specify scriptingBackend to use trough a test settings file.
    
*   GI: Added experimental API for baking sky occlusion in Progressive Lightmapper. The sky occlusion value for a given input position denotes what fraction of the sky is visible for that point. It takes into account any lightmap static object. The sky occlusion allows you to apply the correct amount of sky lighting to objects that are otherwise hard to lightmap, such as trees and foliage.
    
*   GI: Progressive Lightmapper is now out of preview!
    
*   GI: \[Experimental\] Added new experimental C# interface to pass light information to the GI baking backends.
    
*   Graphics: Added dynamic resolution support for PS4.
    
*   Graphics: GPU Instancing now supports GI.
    
    *   Objects affected by light probes, occlusion probes (in shadowmask mode) or lightmaps can now be automatically batched by Foward and Deferred pipeline.
    *   Light probe and occlusion probe data can be sent to `Graphics.DrawMeshInstanced` using `LightProbeUsage.CustomProvided` mode.
    *   New APIs are added for calculating probe data and copying to `MaterialPropertyBlock`: -- `LightProbes.CalculateInterpolatedLightAndOcclusionProbes` -- `MaterialPropertyBlock.CopySHCoefficientArrayFrom` -- `MaterialPropertyBlock.CopyProbeOcclusionArrayFrom`
*   Graphics: Metal: Added support for DX11 tessellation through hull/domain shaders.
    
*   Launcher: The launcher now allows users to select one of the new project templates when creating new projects. Project templates available currently: _2D_, _3D_, _3D Ultra_ (Preview), _Lightweight_ (Preview), _Lightweight VR_ (Preview), and _High Definition_ (Preview).
    
*   Multiplayer: Added support for callbacks that the user can define to be notified when there is something to read or connection is ready to send.
    
*   OSX: Added support for IL2CPP scripting backend for Mac Standalone player.
    
*   Package Manager: Added Package Manager user interface v1.3.0, from where a project's packages can be managed and new packages can be discovered. Note that the UI isn't yet final and will see further improvements during the beta cycle. Known limitations at this time:
    
    *   No visual indication of recommended vs. otherwise discoverable packages.
    *   Light on details for most packages, including for alternative versions available.
*   Package Manager: Updated Package Manager user interface (from where a project's packages can be managed and new packages can be discovered) to v1.5.1. What's new in 1.5.1:
    
    *   Moved menu item to access the Package Manager UI window from "Project -> Packages -> Manage" to "Window -> Package Manager".
    *   The "Install" tab now shows the latest version (and description) available for each package, rather than the current version.
    *   The "Update to" button is no longer displayed when the current version is the same as (or greater than) the latest one available.
    *   The UI now displays "alpha", "beta", "experimental" and "recommended" tags for packages, as appropriate. Previous versions did not display such tags, so it was not possible to determine the status of packages.
    *   UI polish.
*   Package Manager: Updated Package Manager user interface (from where a project's packages can be managed and new packages can be discovered) to v1.6.1. What's new in 1.6.1:
    
    *   When updating the package, the user is now asked to confirm temporary closure of the window. Note however that this will only be the case when updating from v1.6.1 onwards. When updating from 1.5.1 to 1.6.1, a restart of Unity is necessary for the update to take effect.
    *   The window is now dockable.
    *   UI style rework, making it consistent with the rest of the Editor.
    *   Added keyboard navigation in the Packages list
*   Particles: Added support for GPU instancing of Particle System mesh rendering.
    
*   Particles: Added support for Orbital Velocity to the Velocity over Lifetime module.
    
*   Particles: All particle emitter shapes now support reading a Texture for masking and color tinting.
    
*   Physics: 2D Physics is now able to use all the cores on a device to run its simulation. See 'Job Options (Experimental)' in 2D physics settings.
    
*   Player: (Also mentioned under API changes) Added an experimental API which allows to change the order in which engine systems are invoked, remove engine systems from the update order, or insert new C# entrypoints at any point in the update cycle: `UnityEngine.Experimental.LowLevel.PlayerLoop`.
    
*   Scripting: Added command line option "overrideMonoSearchPath" for desktop standalone players (OSX, Windows). "overrideMonoSearchPath" specifies an extra folder to search when Mono is loading assemblies. One intended use is two versions of the same project i.e. trial and full version. The assets are the same but the scripts are different. This command line option can be used to re-use the assets but load different scripts.
    
*   Video: Audio sample output API for the VideoPlayer with support for access from C# or C++.
    
*   Video: Support for reading videos from AssetBundles on Android.
    
*   Web: Added `UploadHandlerFile` for UnityWebRequest: sends file contents as request body without loading entire file to memory.
    
*   Web: Custom certificate validation support added to UnityWebRequest. See CertificateHandler script documentation for more info.
    
*   Windows: Added support for IL2CPP scripting backend for Windows Standalone player.
    
*   XR: 360 stereo image capture with support for conversion of rendered texture (cubemap) to stereo/mono equirectangular format for display in VR. Added script API: `RenderTexture.ConvertToEquirect()` for converting rendered cubemap textures to stereo and mono equirectangular format.
    
*   XR: Added a new option in the Windows MR Player Settings called **Enable Depth Buffer Sharing**. This allows the OS to better stabilize images without the need to manually set the focus plane. For more information on the benefits of image stabilization, see Microsoft's documentation on [Hologram Stability](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/hologram_stability).
    
*   XR: Added support for capturing stereoscopic 360 images for VR and non-VR projects. Added omni-directional stereo (ODS) support in shader pipeline for rendering to 360 stereo cubemap.
    
    *   Support for 360 stereo cubemap rendering in forward/deferred pipelines, directional/point light shadows, Skybox, MSAA, HDR and post processing stack. All pipelines and modes are tested.
    *   ODS rendering support for screenspace shadows via separate ods world space pass and render texture to avoid incorrect shadows per eye.
    *   Added stereo `RenderToCubemap` API script support: `camera.RenderToCubemap` with stereo eye parameter.
*   XR: Standalone player support for stereoscopic 360 image capture for VR and non-VR projects. Currently supported on Win64/OSX platforms.
    
    *   Generate 360 capture shader variants when building standalone player according to the '360 Stereo Capture' UI checkbox in the VR editor settings panel.
    *   Added `PlayerSettings.enable360StereoCapture` binding and doc page.

### Backwards Compatibility Breaking Changes

*   Particles: Removed Legacy Particle System script bindings.
    
*   Tizen: Tizen mobile support has been removed.
    

### Changes

*   Android: Input field caret now always appears at the end of text when opening keyboard. ([966477](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-caret-is-always-at-the-beginning-of-existing-text-when-selecting-inputfield-with-line-type-set-to-multi-line))
    
*   Android: Newly created projects now default to ARMv7 CPU architecture.
    
*   Android: Removed support for `UnityPlayerProxyActivity`.
    
*   Android: SDK Platform 26 now required to build for Android.
    
*   Android: Updated JDK requirements to JDK 8. This a requirement from the latest Android SDK.
    
*   Android: We now create a 2048-bit RSA key for signing the apk.
    
*   Animation: Starting playmode while editing an Avatar configuration will no longer change the current scene. ([916586](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/entering-play-mode-while-editing-avatar-throws-invalidoperationexception-error))
    
*   Audio: Added error message when AudioSource.GetSpectrumData or AudioListener.GetSpectrumData are called with float arrays that are not a power of 2 or are outside the valid range between 64 and 8192 samples. ([827154](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-error-executing-m-drygroup-getspectrum-when-using-array-with-a-length-that-is-not-a-power-of-2))
    
*   Editor: Added `InspectorWindow.OnPostHeaderGUI` callback to allow drawing of custom GUI elements in the inspector window.
    
*   Editor: Plug-in code that creates textures used in rendering with IMGUI should now avoid specifying them in linear space (i.e. should set the linear parameter to false in the `Texture2D` constructor). Otherwise, GUI elements drawn with such textures may look washed out when the project is working in Linear space (Player Settings > Color space: Linear). (908904)
    
*   Editor: Removed "intensity" float field next to HDR texture fields in material editors; instead use the exposure controls in the Color Picker.
    
*   Editor: Removed MonoDevelop 5.9.6 from macOS and Windows installers and deprecated support for it in Unity. Visual Studio for Mac is installed as the C# code editor on macOS and Visual Studio 2017 Community on Windows.
    
*   Editor: Substituted "intensity" float field in the Static Emissives tab of the Light Explorer for HDR color field; instead use the exposure controls in Color Picker.
    
*   GI: Support for hiding and disabling GI features when making a render pipeline.
    
*   Graphics: Deprecated `PlayerSettings.defaultIsFullscreen`. `Use PlayerSettings.fullscreenMode` instead.
    
*   Graphics: GraphicsSettings shaders are no longer loaded on startup.
    
*   iOS: Increased min target iOS version to 8.0.
    
*   iOS: iOS now links with Security framework by default. To remove it, set a pre-processor define DISABLE\_WEBREQUEST\_CERTIFICATE\_CALLBACK and remove Security framework from the list of linked frameworks in xcode.
    
*   iOS: ScreenOrientation.Unknown is deprecated
    
*   OSX: Metal is now the default graphics backend for Editor.
    
*   Services: Replaced web-based Collab history window with improved RMGUI version.
    
*   Substance: Built-in support for Substance Designer materials is deprecated in Unity 2017.3, and will be removed in 2018.1. To continue using Substance Designer materials in Unity 2018.1, you will need to install a suitable third-party external importer from the Asset Store.
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Build & Run now defaults to 64-bit player when run on local machine.
    
*   Web: AssetBundle related parts of UnityWebRequest have been split into a new module, allowing UnityWebRequest to be used without pulling in AssetBundle module. API change: `UnityWebRequest.GetAssetBundle` -> `UnityWebRequestAssetBundle.GetAssetBundle`.
    
*   WebGL: Removed experimental label from WebAssembly linker target.
    
*   Windows: Removed support for Windows XP in Standalone Player builds. Windows Vista is the minimum supported OS now.
    
*   XR: Standalone UWP applications targeting Windows Mixed Reality will now cause the OS to notify the user if the Mixed Reality components are not installed or a headset is not connected, rather than silently falling back to non-VR desktop mode.
    

### Improvements

*   Android: Added `GUIUtility.systemCopyBuffer` support.
    
*   Android: Added `InputTouch.radius` and `InputTouch.radiusVariance` properties (currently works on a limited set of devices).
    
*   Android: Change to use the activity attribute when setting max aspect ratio since API 26.
    
*   Android: Improved shader compilation time.
    
*   Android: Support Linear Rendering without additional fullscreen blit on Android O
    
*   Android: Unity will imprint product name into Unity's default android banner, making it easier to distinguish between apps on Android devices where banner is used for showing app.
    
*   Android: Unity will now be slightly smarter about guessing the location of the Android SDK if you didn't fill it out in the Preferences.
    
*   Android: Update gradle template to not strip symbols from \*.so files, as they already are stripped where needed.
    
*   Android: \[Gradle\] Added more variables to `build.gradle`.
    
*   Animation: Transition exit time condition will now work with negative state speed parameter ([941112](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-with-negative-speed-multiplier-parameter-ignores-animator-state-transitions))
    
*   Animation: Using Reset in the Inspector while Recording an animation creates a key for each supported modified property at the current frame. ([766821](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationwindow-transform-reset-is-not-recorded))
    
*   Animation: `AnimationUtility.SetAnimationEvents` will now sort `AnimationEvent`s by time. ([913430](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationutility-dot-setanimationevents-does-not-trigger-events-correctly-if-event-array-is-not-sorted-by-time))
    
*   Asset Import: In optimized mode, if a root bone is specified in the unoptimized SkinnedMeshRenderer and its transform has also been exposed, the root bone will now be kept as is, otherwise it will be set to root. ([972082](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/skinned-mesh-renderer-bounds-offsets-when-applying-optimize-go-if-bounds-were-predefined-by-user), 988438)
    
*   Audio: Added minDistance/maxDistance information to the native audio plugin interface, so spatializers can implement near-field effects.
    
*   Audio: Removed audio profiler stall of about 0.7 ms in the main loop, which was happening even for empty scenes.
    
*   Documentation: The Scripting Reference will now show which assembly an API is implemented in.
    
*   Editor: (Also mentioned under API Changes) Added `UnityEngine.TestTools.Utils` to the Playmode test framework. This namespace contains utility classes to compare 'Vector2', 'Vector3', 'Vector4', `Quaternion`, Color and `float` types using `NUnit` constraints.
    
*   Editor: Added ability to duplicate any readonly sub-asset in the Project View to get a writable copy. Select any sub-asset and execute the Edit -> Duplicate command.
    
*   Editor: Added lightmap overlap visualization for debugging.
    
*   Editor: Added rename option to right-click menu in project view. (773117)
    
*   Editor: Added time ruler, dynamic grid lines, and ability to select and zoom to specific interval in profiler timeline.
    
*   Editor: Added `Application.wantsToQuit` and `Application.quitting` events to `EditorApplication`, enabling the user to control the editor quit process. (802175)
    
*   Editor: Clarified message shown in Build Settings window when platform is not supported by current license (957929)
    
*   Editor: Editor console window now displays a timestamp from when the entry was logged
    
*   Editor: HDR color fields in the Inspector now use gradient overlay to indicate underexposed colors where the max color component is less than 1/255.
    
*   Editor: HDR color fields now always appear with HDR badge in the Inspector, irrespective of their current value.
    
*   Editor: It is no longer possible to start multiple EditMode or PlayMode test runs at the same time from the test runner UI. ([945000](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/testrunner-playmode-test-leaves-behind-inittestscene-dot-dot-dot-scene-assets-after-test-runs))
    
*   Editor: Optimizations to Editor startup time.
    
*   Editor: Profiler displays 3 frames of context and supports jobs spanning more than one frame
    
*   Editor: Profiler Window: Improved performance of Hierarchy View.
    
*   Editor: Redesigned color picker window with exposure-based HDR controls.
    
*   Editor: Reduced some heap allocations incurred every frame when drawing a serialized property with a PropertyDrawer.
    
*   Editor: Removed a workaround for WebViews that had been added for macOS Sierra 10.12.1. This prevents a warning message in the Editor.log file every time a WebView is added to the main window.
    
*   Editor: The Mute Audio option in the Editor / Game View now persistes after Editor reload. (785243)
    
*   Editor: The text in the details in the Profiler Window sections is now selectable. (787073)
    
*   Editor: Unsupported shaders are now grouped in the shader selection dropdown in the Material inspector.
    
*   Editor: `ExecuteMenuItem` can now be used to quit the macOS EditorApplication.
    
*   GI: Creation of LightingDataAsset is now a job
    
*   GI: Upgrade Enlighten SDK to version: 3.09.P1.62184
    
    *   Fix for SetThreadAffinityMask crashes, backported from a newer version of Embree (CS-1196)
    *   Fix in IffWriter, so that > 4GB file sizes will fail instead of corrupting the file. (CS-1193)
    *   Fix for CalcPrecomputedVisibilityWorkspaceSize() returning an error (CS-1204)
    *   Warnings are no longer emitted for deprecated attributes that have been assigned default values by the schema definition.
*   Graphics: - Directly render and sample into depth-cube map without additional color RT.
    
    *   Hardware PCF for shadow point light is now enabled.
    *   Added support for Vulkan.
*   Graphics: Add option to Texture Importer to select red color channel for Single Channel Textures
    
    *   Added support for R8 uncompressed format
    *   Added support for EAC\_R compressed textures
    *   Red channel Single Channel Textures use R8, EAC\_R, BC4 formats
*   Graphics: Added support for ETC textures with Texture2D.PackTextures, similar to DXT.
    
*   Graphics: Added `MeshRenderer.subMeshStartIndex` property.
    
*   Graphics: Change to allow async compute command buffers to be attached to cameras and lights.
    
*   Graphics: Directly render and sample into depth-cube map without additional color RT. Hardware PCF for shadow point light is now enabled. Added support for PS4, XB1, desktop GL Core, GLES3, WebGL 2.0, Metal.
    
*   Graphics: Enabled instancing flexible array size for Vulkan.
    
*   Graphics: Improved Mesh.CombineMeshes to include only vertices of selected submeshes instead of entire mesh ([895464](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mesh-dot-combinemeshes-combines-verts-of-all-meshes-instead-of-just-the-submeshes))
    
*   Graphics: Improved shader import handling when using `#pragma target`. If no `#pragma geometry`, `#pragma hull` or `#pragma domain` statements are used to specify entrypoint functions, these shader features (geometry or tessellation) are now dropped from the internal shader capabilities requirement, allowing greater compatibility across non-DX11 graphics targets. In practise, this now allows using `#pragma target 5.0` with Metal, as long as geometry shaders are not used.
    
*   Graphics: In forward rendering do not fetch 2x2 white shadowmask texture when liting a realtime object with a mixed light using baked occlusion. (952761)
    
*   Graphics: \[ToggleUI\] display a checkbox in inspector of shader without generating keyword (unlike \[Toggle\] and \[ToggleOff\]) ([986865](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/maximum-number-256-of-shader-keywords-exceeded-in-srp))
    
*   IL2CPP: Added C++ compiler configuration setting to player settings. Note: this setting does not affect platforms which generate an IDE project rather than an executable, such as iOS and UWP.
    
*   iOS: Added a checkbox to the iOS plugin importer: when checked, the plugin is added to the "Embedded Binaries" folder. (984264)
    
*   iOS: Added a default camera usage description when Vuforia or ARKit are used. ([956291](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vuforia-ios-camera-usage-description-remains-null-after-importing-vuforias-package-and-enabling-vuforia-support))
    
*   iOS: Added ETC2 as texture format for iOS OpenGL ES3
    
*   iOS: Added `GUIUtility.systemCopyBuffer` support.
    
*   iOS: Change to allow caret position in Input Field to be manipulated with touch when Hide Mobile Input is set.
    
*   iOS: Improved iCould capability support in Xcode API.
    
*   iOS: Improved shader compilation time.
    
*   iOS: Improved support of the plist specification in Xcode API.
    
*   Kernel: Improved error messages for YAML file reading so that it also reports filenames, which will aid in the resolution of merge conflicts for meta files.
    
*   Licenses: Improved error handling for command line activation. ([834325](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/improve-error-handling-for-command-line-activation))
    
*   Linux: Change to allow games to provide their own controller configuration files.
    
*   Linux: Improved support for unconfigured/non-gamepad joysticks.
    
*   Multiplayer: Two or more channels can now share the messages order, so that messages which send via differnet channels will be delivered in order.
    
*   OSX: Added Visual Studio for Mac to macOS Installer.
    
*   OSX: Fixed Editor crash when using GLCore on High Sierra with Intel 6xxx series GPU. ([956196](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-crashes-when-creating-3d-objects-when-game-view-is-visible-and-default-skybox-is-enabled-on-13-inch-macbook-pro))
    
*   Package Manager: Allow surface shaders compilation when relative path include are used inside a package
    
*   Particles: Overriden Prefab values are now indicated/highlighted in the inspector.
    
*   Particles: Sub-Emitters can now be triggered from script, using the new TriggerSubEmitter script API.
    
*   Particles: Sub-Emitters can now be triggered when conditions are met in the Trigger Module. (e.g. when particles enter a collision volume)
    
*   Profiling: Added Editor startup profiling markers
    
*   Scripting: Added a scripting callback which is called just before a cubemap texture has completed importing (`AssetPostprocessor::OnPostprocessCubemap`).
    
*   Scripting: Added new GetAllocatedMemoryForGraphicsDriver API (896812)
    
*   Scripting: Improved "The referenced script on this Behaviour is missing!" error message to tell you which script is missing, where possible.
    
*   Scripting: Improved performance characteristics of `FindObjectsOfType` for scenes with large object count
    
*   Services: Updated Unity Ads to 2.1.1
    
*   Shaders: Added more granular way of specifying shader compilation requirements, compared to `#pragma target`.
    
    *   `#pragma require` XYZ for specific features that the shader requires.
    *   `SHADER_REQUIRE_XYZ` and `SHADER_AVAILABLE_XYZ` preprocessor defines are passed to shaders, based on which features are requested or are available.
*   Shaders: Added Windows support for shader include absolute paths longer than 260 characters.
    
*   Shaders: Compute shaders are now included in the shader cache. E.g. tweaking a shader and then reverting the change will fetch the shader from the cache instead of recompilation.
    
*   Shaders: Global shader properties are now visible to compute shaders. A global property value will be used if the property is not set locally for the compute shader.
    
*   Shaders: Proper shader include dependency tracking implemented. Whenever a shader include file is modified all the dependent shaders - and nothing else - will get reimported. ([646064](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadercompiler-shaders-do-not-get-recompiled-on-changes-in-includes), [916386](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-files-included-in-compute-shader-doesnt-compile-before-compute-shader-is-changed), [957024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-to-cginc-files-does-not-cause-shaders-in-different-directories-to-recompile))
    
*   Shaders: Shader compilation speed improvement.
    
*   Shaders: Surface Shaders with many multi\_compile/shader\_feature variants import several times faster now (internally that step has been multithreaded).
    
*   Shaders: `ComputeShader.Dispatch` now validates if all the properties are valid.
    
*   Shaders: `SetPropertyBlock` can now be used per material (in case of multi-material renderer), and can now use an optional material index.
    
*   Shaders: `UNITY_PASS_FORWARDBASE`, `UNITY_PASSFORWARDADD`, etc. are now also defined for custom vertex / fragment shaders according to the pass type.
    
*   Timeline: Added support for left trim on recorded Animation Track clips.
    
*   Timeline: Improved clip visual rendering.
    
*   Timeline: Improved workflow when autokeying animation tracks that contain clips.
    
*   Timeline: Introduced new modes for editing clips in the Timeline Editor.
    
*   UI: Added the ability to toggle the rounding of advance width. This allows you to get more consistent spacing between characters in a text mesh.
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Added an option to select which configuration (debug/release/master) should be used when doing Build & Run.
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Improved support for building project into longer paths.
    
*   Video: Added basic video bitrate control in MediaEncoder API.
    
*   Video: Video Decoding via Job System on many platforms (reducing overall thread count and improving performance)
    
*   Web: Improved performance for large data download using custom download handler script
    
*   Web: UnityWebRequest will now accept URI instances alongside string URL (URI being faster). ([944500](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-webrequestutils-dot-makeinitialurl-causes-cpu-spikes))
    
*   WebGL: Added indexedDB caching support for all build files in WebGL and for compiled WebAssembly code.
    
*   WebGL: Allow user to override webglContextAttributes.premultipliedAlpha
    
*   Windows: Added a completely new, out-of-process crash handler for both the Windows Editor and Windows Standalone Player, improving reliability of error.log and minidump generation.
    
*   Windows: Added support to enable/disable exclusive mode on Windows through new SetResolution API overload. Consolidated platform specific fullscreen modes into a single cross platform FullScreenMode API.
    
*   Windows: Multiple improvements in crash handling:
    
    *   Unity applications that enable the Performance Reporting Service will now receive Windows crash telemetry.
    *   Crash interception is now much more reliable, catching more categories of error, sooner and later in the application life.
    *   The crash UX for the player has been updated to remove the wordy English-only error message and display something generic before handing off to WER (which tells the user what happened in their native language).
*   XR: Android builds that support ARCore can now be built using target API version 14 or higher.
    
*   XR: Metal: Implemented the remaining draw call functionality (`Graphics.DrawProcedural` etc) for Single-Pass Stereo rendering, which was missing previously.
    

### API Changes

*   2D: Added `DetectChunkCullingBounds` to `TilemapRenderer` to allow for correct culling of large tiles. ([971087](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemap-frustum-culling-is-culling-large-tiles-incorrectly))
    
*   2D: Experimental API `TextureGenerator.GenerateTexture` now takes in a NativeArrray for image buffer instead of setting a `IntPtr` in `TextureGenerationSettings`.
    
*   Animation: Added `AnimationClipPlayable.GetApplyPlayableIK` and `AnimationClipPlayable.SetApplyPlayableIK`.
    
*   Animation: Moved `AnimationUtility.SetGenerateMotionCurves` and `AnimationUtility.GetGenerateMotionCurves` from internal to public.
    
*   Animation: `AnimatorTransitionBase` and `Motion` are now abstract.
    
*   Animation: `AvatarBuilder.BuildHumanAvatar` is no longer supported anymore on the .NET scripting backend.
    
*   Asset Import: (Also see Features) Added `OnPreprocessAsset` callback in `AssetPostprocessor`.
    
*   Asset Pipeline: API manual previously stated that `AssetDatabase.GetSubFolders()` takes absolute paths, which was incorrect. This has now been updated to relative paths, consistent with other AssetDatabase methods.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Added `EditorBuildSettings` API methods: `AddConfigObject`, `TryGetConfigObject`, `GetConfigObjectNames`, `RemoveConfigObejct`.
    
*   Build Pipeline: Renamed `BuildSummary.errors` and `BuildSummary.warnings` to `BuildSummary.totalErrors` and `BuildSummary.totalWarnings` respectively.
    
*   Build Pipeline: The `IPreprocessBuild`, `IPostprocessBuild` and `IProcessScene` interfaces have been changed to pass the `BuildReport` object instead of just the path to the build and target platform.
    
*   Build Pipeline: `BuildReport` API has been moved to the `UnityEditor.Build.Reporting` namespace.
    
*   Editor: (Also mentioned under Improvements) Added `UnityEngine.TestTools.Utils` to the Playmode test framework. This namespace contains utility classes to compare 'Vector2', 'Vector3', 'Vector4', `Quaternion`, Color and `float` types using `NUnit` constraints.
    
*   Editor: Added `Application.wantsToQuit` and `Application.quitting` events.
    
*   Editor: Added `EditorApplication.hierarchyChanged` event and clarified API documentation.
    
*   Editor: Added `EditorApplication.projectChanged` event and clarified API documentation.
    
*   Editor: Added `InspectorWindow.OnPostHeaderGUI` callback to allow drawing of custom GUI elements in the inspector window.
    
*   Editor: Explicitly setting the following delegates to null will no longer draw a control handle, instead of drawing using a default implementation: `PrimitiveBoundsHandle.midpointHandleDrawFunction`, `ArcHandle.angleHandleDrawFunction`, `ArcHandle.radiusHandleDrawFunction`, `JointAngularLimitHandle.angleHandleDrawFunction`.
    
*   Editor: Explicitly setting the following delegates to null will now result in a handle size of 0 instead of using a default value: `PrimitiveBoundsHandle.midpointHandleSizeFunction`, `ArcHandle.angleHandleSizeFunction`, `ArcHandle.radiusHandleSizeFunction`, `JointAngularLimitHandle.angleHandleSizeFunction`.
    
*   Editor: `ColorPickerHDRConfig` is now obsolete and is no longer used
    
*   Editor: `EditorApplication.hierarchyWindowChanged` is now obsolete, superceded by `EditorApplication.hierarchyChanged`.
    
*   Editor: `EditorApplication.projectWindowChanged` is now obsolete, superceded by `EditorApplication.projectChanged`.
    
*   Editor: `EditorGUI.ColorField()` and `EditorGUILayout.ColorField()` signatures taking a `ColorPickerHDRConfig` are now obsolete
    
*   Editor: `UnityEditor.AndroidTargetDevice` is now obsolete, superceded by `UnityEditor.AndroidArchitecture`. `UnityEditor.PlayerSettings.targetDevice` is now obsolete, superceded by `UnityEditor.PlayerSettings.targetArchitectures`.
    
*   GI: Experimental Lightmapping scripting API now uses `NativeArray` instead of Lists.
    
*   Graphics: Added a new API to extract shader information (ShaderData).
    
*   Graphics: Exposed `RenderPipelineAsset.OnValidate` and `OnDisable` methods.
    
*   Graphics: `Graphics.ConvertTexture` now supports `RenderTexture` as source.
    
*   Graphics: `Texture` is now abstract.
    
*   Input: `TouchScreenKeybord.done` and `TouchScreenKeyboard.wasCanceled` are now obsolete, superceded by `UseTocuhScreenKeyboard.status`.
    
*   Multiplayer: Added `GetHostPort` function, reporting the port number assigned to the host.
    
*   Multiplayer: Deprecated unused function `NetworkTransport.GetAssetId()`. ([950325](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unet-unetasset-getassetid-crashes-when-entering-to-play-mode))
    
*   Playables: New functions in `UnityEditor.Playables.Utility` to retrieve all the PlayableGraphs, and events for when a PlayableGraph is created or destroyed.
    
*   Playables: New LeadTime feature allowing to "pre-warm" the data inside the playable node
    
*   Playables: PlayableGraphs can now have names.
    
*   Playables: `Playable.ConnectInput` can now optionally take a weight for the connected input.
    
*   Player: (Alse mentioned under Features) Added an experimental API which allows to change the order in which engine systems are invoked, remove engine systems from the update order, or insert new C# entrypoints at any point in the update cycle: `UnityEngine.Experimental.LowLevel.PlayerLoop`.
    
*   Player: Added `Application.wantsToQuit` and `Application.quitting` events.
    
*   Player: Deprecated `Application.CancelQuit` method.
    
*   Scripting: Added constructor for `TextAsset` that allows you to specify a string for its text contents.
    
*   Scripting: Added `ShaderUtil.GetAllShaderInfo` for listing all available shaders.
    
*   Scripting: Added `Vector2.Perpendicular` to calculate a perpendicular vector in 2D space.
    
*   Scripting: Extended `Vector2` to support component-wise multiplication and division between two `Vector2` values.
    
*   Scripting: Privatized unimplemented parameterless constructors for the following classes: `AudioManager`, `EditorSettings`, `GraphicsSettings`, `InputManager`, `LightmapSettings`, `MonoManager`,`Physics2DSettings`, `PhysicsManager`, `PlayerSettings`, `QualitySettings`, `RenderSettings`, `Shader`, `Sprite`, `TagManager`, `TimeManager`, `AssetBundle`, `AssetBundleManifest`, `AudioClip`, `ComputeShader`, `LightingDataAsset`, `LightProbes`, `MovieTexture`, `ProceduralTexture`, `SceneAsset`, `SubstanceArchive`, `VideoClip`, `RuntimeAnimatorController`.
    
*   UI: Added `characterLimit` property for `TouchScreenKeyboard`.
    
*   XR: Added PlayerSettings `Get`/`SetVirtualRealitySupported`, `Get`/`SetVirtualRealitySDKs`, and `GetAvailableVirtualRealitySDKs` for acquiring and setting the XR Settings Virtual Reality Supported toggle and Virtual Reality SDKs list.
    
*   XR: Added `XR.WSA.HolographicSettings.IsContentProtectionEnabled`.
    
*   XR: Added `XR.WSA.HolographicSettings.ReprojectionMode`.
    

### Fixes

*   2D: Fixed case of snapping being enabled in the Sprite Editor Window's Outline Editor, even if set otherwise. ([951918](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-sprite-cut-using-sprite-editors-edit-outline-tool-appears-incorrectly-in-the-scene-view))
    
*   2D: Fixed case of Sprite 2D physicsShape not being set until the 'Edit Physics Shape' tab is opened for the first time after texture import. ([985912](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-2d-physicsshape-is-not-set-until-edit-physics-shape-tab-is-opened-for-the-1st-time-after-texture-import))
    
*   2D: Fixed issue where changing `Sprite` in `SpriteRenderer` would cause `Collider2D` to be recreated when `Collider2D`s auto-tiling was disabled. (971931)
    
*   Android: Fix crash when selecting input field on some Samsung and Sony Xperia devices ([953849](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-keyboard-crashes-app-when-selecting-text-in-input-field-galaxy-xperia))
    
*   Android: Fix problem with Amazon Kindle Fire screen distortion on app launch when splash screen is turned off ([900732](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-kindle-fire-has-distorted-screen-on-app-launch-when-splash-screen-is-turned-off))
    
*   Android: Fix problem with buttons in scroll view sometimes did not detect input ([885600](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-sometimes-buttons-in-scroll-view-does-not-detecting-input))
    
*   Android: Fixed black textures after quick pause/resume during splash screen. ([952769](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-ui-texture-becomes-black-after-minimizing-and-maximizing-the-application-before-splash-screen-on-low-end-devices))
    
*   Android: Fixed issue where decimal point button in decimal keyboard was not selectable on older Samsung devices. ([973815](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/decimal-mark-point-not-selectable-in-android-build-for-older-android-devices))
    
*   Android: Fixed light cookie quality on OpenGLES2 GPUs without highp support in fragment shader. ([908253](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-light-flickers-when-using-spotlight-with-cookie-and-moving-away-from-world-origin-on-older-mali-gpus))
    
*   Android: Fixed shadow quality degrading on OpenGLES2 GPUs without highp support in fragment shader (919669)
    
*   Android: Fixed VertexLit point and spot lights issues seen on some Adreno devices. ([949576](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-objects-with-mobile-vertex-lit-shader-ignore-point-light-and-spot-light-when-built-on-a-device-with-adreno-418-gpu))
    
*   Android: Unity passes hardware camera key to the system so that Camera activity in the system is executed. ([944797](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-built-in-camera-button-is-disabled-in-sony-xperia-devices-when-running-unity-applications))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an irrelevant assert in Animation Component ([943954](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assert-in-play-mode-when-culling-type-is-set-to-based-on-renderers-m-rendererdata-dot-m-isvisibleinscene-and-and-isinscene-dot-dot-dot))
    
*   Animation: Fixed an issue with Animators set to "Cull Completely" not getting updated in some cases ([947990](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-culling-mode-cull-completely-does-not-update-after-enabling-an-object-with-time-dot-timescale-equal-to-0))
    
*   Animation: Fixed animation mode being reset when saving scene. ([949523](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-preview-mode-is-disabled-on-save-slash-copy))
    
*   Animation: Fixed bool property not properly restored to initial value when exiting animation window preview. ([947491](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/checkbox-property-values-become-disabled-after-adding-their-property-to-animation))
    
*   Animation: Fixed case of Timeline sequence not firing animation events. ([947918](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/event-added-to-animation-window-which-is-linked-to-sequence-editor-doesnt-get-activated))
    
*   Animation: Fixed crash in the animation system when using code stripping. ([938640](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-ios-build-crashes-on-querycomponentbytype-inlined-when-code-stripping-is-enabled))
    
*   Animation: Fixed issue where not all playables bound to the Animator were evaluated when coming out of culling. (883583)
    
*   Animation: Fixed transition preview not updating when switching transitions in inspector ([938053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transition-preview-doesnt-respond-to-selection-change-in-list-when-transition-is-selected-in-animator-window))
    
*   Apple TV: Fix to only allow to set one layer for Top shelf images. (760436)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed 90 degrees offset of lights and cameras animations from MotionBuilder when pre-rotation, post-rotation and rotation offset values are 0 and use Euler values. (954475)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed an issue where the update avatar button would not disappear in the ModelImporter Rig panel. ([837263](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspector-missingreferenceexception-when-applying-model-changes), 990716)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed bug where import of FBX with custom framerate would generate `AnimationClip`s with wrong framerate. ([916405](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-fbx-with-custom-fps-defaults-the-fps-to-12-dot-5))
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed case of wrong asset selector type in material remapping import settings if material is already assigned. ([971556](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wrong-asset-selector-type-in-material-remapping-import-settings-if-material-is-already-assigned))
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed import of string typed custom properties from FBX files created with MotionBuilder. (956420)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed issue where compressed mesh UVs produce huge serialized data when values are within a very short range. (960280)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed issue where FBX models imported from 3DSMax 2018 for the first time have an avatar, even if they contain no animation. (923384)
    
*   Asset Import: Fixed the state of the "Extract Materials" button on the model importer inspector when the names of the imported materials has changed. (958044)
    
*   Audio: Fixed a bug on Windows Editor and Standalone builds where Unity would not react to changes in the system audio device list (such as when changing the default audio output device, amongst others). ([935547](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-changing-default-audio-output-device-does-not-change-audio-output-device-in-editor-and-build))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a bug where a very low frequency generated audio clip (< 1000 Hz) would crash Unity. ([873683](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-audioclip-dot-create-if-frequency-is-set-to-1-or-2))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a bug where an AudioSource with the highest possible priority could be virtualized before others. ([928587](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-sound-with-audibility-above-0-becomes-virtualized-when-it-has-the-highest-priority-and-audibility))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a bug where assigning to AudioSource.clip would additionally stop the AudioSource's currently playing oneshots, also inducing performance spikes. Now only the main clip will be stopped. ([875968](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audiosource-dot-playoneshot-audiosource-dot-clip-is-causing-huge-performance-spikes-after-audiosource-dot-clip-is-re-assigned))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a bug where the editor would crash when recompiling scripts while having generated streaming audio clips (AudioClip.Create()). ([884965](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-at-audioscriptbuffermanager-getpcmreadarray-while-recompiling-script-in-play-mode))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a bug where using Razer Kraken 7.1 headsets as an audio input device (using `Microphone.Start()`) would throw errors. ([946835](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-microphone-does-not-work-with-razer-kraken-7-dot-1-chroma-headsets-while-razer-synapse-is-installed), [950409](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-system-does-not-work-with-razer-kraken-usb-headset-fmod-failed-to-initialize-the-output-device))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a crash when calling AudioSource.SetCustomCurve() with a null argument. ([931396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-audiosource-custom-setcustomcurve-when-animationcurve-is-set-to-null))
    
*   Audio: Fixed a crash when creating audio clips (AudioClip.Create()) inside OnEnable().
    
*   Audio: Fixed a possible crash when destroying game objects with attached custom filters (OnAudioFilterRead).
    
*   Audio: Fixed a possible crash with bad audio drivers, device initialization is more now robust - also added a diagnostic message in case of failure to open audio devices with expected settings. ([916971](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/soundmanager-unloadclip-crashes-when-tascam-audio-interface-is-plugged-into-pc))
    
*   Audio: Fixed crash happened when Timeline was outputting sound to a disabled Audio Source ([930758](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-timeline-with-a-disabled-audio-source-causes-editor-crash-when-exiting-play-mode))
    
*   Audio: Fixed issue where AudioClips with future time stamps would fail import. ([951169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-didnt-recognize-audio-files-if-file-created-data-is-greater-than-your-actual-data-time-is))
    
*   Audio: \[RequireComponent(AudioBehaviour)\] now works correctly with AudioSources and AudioListeners. ([888121](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audiobehaviour-can-be-removed-even-when-it-is-being-used-as-a-requiredcomponent))
    
*   Build Pipeline: Scripts-only build now requires that the destination directory of the player match the last cached build. Some platforms such as Xbox One and PS4 fail in unclear ways without this requirement. (932403)
    
*   Cache Server: Add check for enough data in protocol version check ([943300](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cache-server-doesnt-handle-partial-data-packets-during-handshake))
    
*   Cache Server: Fixed bugs that could potentially cause communication with the Cache Server to stall
    
*   Cache Server: Fixed caching issue where slashes '/' were in the url parameters were causing the cache key to be corrupted ([896779](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-bundle-caching-key-gets-corrupted-if-there-are-slash-characters-on-the-query-parameters))
    
*   Editor: Collaborate no longer deletes ignored files when restoring to an older version. ([932926](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/reverting-to-an-older-collab-commit-deletes-all-ignored-files), 985130)
    
*   Editor: Executing PlayMode tests in batch mode no longer leaves behind a bootstrap scene after execution.
    
*   Editor: Fixed ALOC\_TEMP\_THREAD error when entering Play mode. (939779)
    
*   Editor: Fixed background in Keys tab of Preferences when using the Personal Skin. ([931908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/keys-section-under-preferences-uses-the-light-skin))
    
*   Editor: Fixed bug where clicking on the "Swatches" label in Color Picker would not expand preset controls. (976080)
    
*   Editor: Fixed bug where HDR color swatches in the Inspector were not converted to gamma color space before being displayed.
    
*   Editor: Fixed bug where pressing Esc would not cancel color sampling eyedropper mode.
    
*   Editor: Fixed bug where sampling color with eyedropper would not convert sampled color back to linear space when the color field was marked as HDR.
    
*   Editor: Fixed bug where UnityEvent drawer would not synchronize correctly when displayed using multiple different serialized data streams, such as when displayed in two different windows at once. ([974069](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unityevent-doesnt-serialize-slash-update-correctly-in-editorwindows-when-editing-serialized-fields))
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of "System is already interested in this transform" errors in some cases. ([962008](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/interacting-with-particular-custom-editor-window-causes-system-is-already-interested-in-this-transform-error-to-appear))
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of asset remaining highlighted when moving last asset out of a folder. ([961630](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assets-remain-highlighted-after-moving-to-a-higher-level-folder-and-deselecting))
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of Color Picker eyedropper preview rendering upside-down in Linux editor.
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of Color Picker window losing color when intensity is dropped and then increased again while window is still open. ([712903](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdr-color-picker-hdr-color-picker-loses-color-when-setting-brightness-to-zero))
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of locks on multiple inspectors getting lost on maximising and restoring views. ([775007](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspector-lock-state-is-lost-once-any-editor-window-is-maximized-and-minimized))
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of never-ending exception when an invalid character was present on the iOS version string in Player Settings. (986098)
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of object skipping its initial position when using the Transform Tool or the Universal Tool + (Control/Command) key. ([964593](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/object-skips-its-initial-position-when-using-transform-slash-universal-tool-plus-ctrl))
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of scene view picking sometimes not selecting the topmost object when loading previously serialized window layout. (943051)
    
*   Editor: Fixed case of `EditorConnection` removing registered callbacks when player disconnects.
    
*   Editor: Fixed Editor crash when closing 2 custom editor windows at the same time. ([967778](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-crashes-when-closing-2-custom-editor-windows-at-the-same-time))
    
*   Editor: Fixed Editor hang when merging files with Collaborate. ([971434](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freeze-on-checking-workspace-has-not-changed-message))
    
*   Editor: Fixed error when using "Static" checkbox on a game object with children. ([962453](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-invalidoperationexception-is-thrown-when-un-checking-static-box-on-a-gameobject), 964436)
    
*   Editor: Fixed exception while selecting Android NDK in preferences and clicking Cancel when NDK path is invalid. (909635)
    
*   Editor: Fixed GUI state scoping issues. (967017)
    
*   Editor: Fixed hard crash in Linux editor when a progress bar supplied a very long string.
    
*   Editor: Fixed incorrect tool placement when pivot mode was set to Center. ([962721](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/center-pivot-point-position-is-not-consistent))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue whereby RequireComponent would cause components on prefabs to be duplicated on play. This would happen if the user added a new component (of the same type) and removed the original. ([778588](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/requirecomponent-causes-components-on-prefabs-to-be-duplicated-on-play))
    
*   Editor: Fixed issue with uXML asset preview being clipped incorrectly. (960313)
    
*   Editor: Fixed moving assets around when ctrl/cmnd buttons are pressed ([938735](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/not-all-selected-files-are-affected-when-attempting-to-manipulate-them-while-control-or-shift-buttons-are-held-down))
    
*   Editor: Fixed OnSceneUnload being called when switching focus away from objects with materials ([946988](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scenemanager-dot-sceneunloaded-gets-called-when-interacting-with-objects-using-materials-in-editor))
    
*   Editor: Fixed pinging newly created objects ([766150](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorguiutility-dot-pingobject-does-not-ping-a-newly-created-gameobject))
    
*   Editor: Fixed plugin setting "Exclude Platforms" having no effect. ([873575](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/two-samenamed-dlls-collide-if-both-are-included-in-any-platform-except-for-webgl-but-not-if-picking-all-platforms-but-webgl))
    
*   Editor: Fixed project view sorting file names with long numbers incorrectly ([681738](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-view-sorts-long-titles-incorrectly))
    
*   Editor: Fixed random hangs during Editor startup. (954607)
    
*   Editor: Fixed scrolling down to the last selected item in a one column layout when selecting or desecting an item ([800606](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onecolumnlayout-project-window-list-scrolls-down-to-the-last-selected-subfolder-when-one-subfolder-is-deselected))
    
*   Editor: Fixed the "Add component" window reseting the search after domain reload ([946012](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-add-component-window-will-reset-the-search-if-it-is-open-during-re-compile))
    
*   Editor: Fixed top right-hand scene view gizmo to update projection type label correctly when setting `SceneView.lastActiveSceneView.orthographic` ([878205](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-the-projection-of-scene-camera-via-sceneview-dot-lastactivesceneview-dot-orthographic-doesnt-update-the-scene-gizmo-label))
    
*   Editor: Generated Visual Studio Solutions will now reference module assemblies, fixing use of PS4 and WebGL API in VS projects. (967854)
    
*   Editor: Items in the AddComponent dropdown are now sorted by name.
    
*   Editor: Layout orientation of AudioMixer window now persists after being closed / reloaded. (776811)
    
*   Editor: Made ObjectSelector's text field react to Home and End button ([762158](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-hotkeys-are-ignored-in-object-picker-dialog-search-field))
    
*   Editor: Made subasset textures visible when searching ([788431](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-search-doesnt-find-the-children-of-an-asset))
    
*   Editor: Mip-level slider now works on Metal (900891)
    
*   Editor: Now batching and tier settings are correctly restored after exiting from playmode ([965811](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/disabling-dynamic-batching-while-editor-is-in-play-mode-does-not-enable-batching-after-exiting-play-mode))
    
*   Editor: Removed UnityConnect error output from console window. (963815)
    
*   Editor: Throw ArgumentNullException instead of crashing if null Asset/ChangeSet are passed to VersionControl Provider methods. (922714)
    
*   Editor: \[Collab\] Fix to prevent snapshot from getting updated when publish fails with copy file error. ([952686](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/collab-when-publish-failed-due-to-cannot-copy-file-error-client-thinks-some-files-are-published-leading-to-bad-sync-state))
    
*   Editor: \[OSX\] Exceptions are no longer thrown in `GUILayoutUtility.BeginLayoutGroup` after pressing Cancel button in a dialog window. (971204)
    
*   GI: Building Standalone no longer throws ... program 'frag\_surf': Unrecognized sampler 'samplerunity\_lightmap' .. error with specific shaders. Shadowmasks now use their own sampler. ([955176](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/building-standalone-throws-dot-dot-dot-program-frag-surf-unrecognized-sampler-samplerunity-lightmap-error-with-specific-shaders))
    
*   GI: Fix for issue where there is no available job slot but jobs are being issued nonetheless.
    
*   GI: Fixed case of assert `kValidSceneObjectIdentifier == res` firing after selecting a prefab and its preview window is visible. ([955674](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/kvalidsceneobjectidentifier-equals-equals-res-assert-after-selecting-a-prefab-and-its-preview-window-is-visible))
    
*   GI: Fixed case of default specular reflection texture containing object from the scene when Umbra is enabled. ([975325](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/umbra-default-reflection-probe-uses-incorrect-hash-data-when-baking-manually))
    
*   GI: Fixed case of Reflection Probes always including Terrain objects even if they are not Reflection Probe Static. (863968)
    
*   GI: Fixed case of scene becoming completely black after clicking 'Generate Lighting' button. (988957)
    
*   GI: Fixed crash when trying to access the "Baked Lightmap" parameter of a Terrain. (952939)
    
*   GI: Fixed issue where in standalone the skybox would disappear after switching active scene, whereas in the editor the skybox would remain. ([828440](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inconsistency-skybox-is-gone-after-switching-active-scene-in-standalone-but-in-editor-skybox-remains))
    
*   GI: Progressive Lightmapper: Fix to composit shadowmasks correctly. (953780)
    
*   GI: Receive Shadows and Cast Shadows options in Progressive Lightmapper now work as expected. (953108)
    
*   Graphics: Added GetColor API to MaterialPropertyBlock. ([942523](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/materialpropertyblock-dot-getcolor-int-nameid-is-missing-from-the-api))
    
*   Graphics: Fix crash when script is creating a culling group, but fails to call SetBoundingSphere.
    
*   Graphics: Fix for deadlock in graphics command buffer when updating constant buffers. (986772, 995312)
    
*   Graphics: Fix for leaking texture IDs associated with the depth textures on some platforms.
    
*   Graphics: Fix to avoid attempting to render LineRenderers with huge vertex counts. ([977228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-at-gfxdeviced3d11base-bindbuffersfordraw-when-linerrenderer-dot-positioncount-is-set-to-big-number))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed case of incorrect realtime sampling of gradient ambient. The previous behavior can be re-enabled by setting `UnityEditor.Experimental.RenderSettings.useRadianceAmbientProbe` to true. ([673298](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mixedlighting-gradient-ambient-source-produces-different-ambient-for-dynamic-objects))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed case of splash screen flickering if background color alpha is not 1. ([901782](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-opening-a-project-which-contains-a-launch-screen-causes-an-additional-texture-to-appear-after-splash-screen))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash in SkinnedMeshRenderer::PrepareSkinCommon when SkinnedMeshRenderer has Animator and Cloth attached. ([941369](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-editor-crash-on-skinnedmeshrenderer-prepareskincommon-when-skinnedmeshrenderer-has-animator-and-cloth-attached))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash on Mesh.ClearBlendShapes ([972060](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-after-clearing-blend-shapes-with-weights-higher-than-0))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed crash when using shadow-casting Lines/Particles/Trails with SRP. (985077)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Flare constructor returning null object.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed issue where the TrailRenderer didn't drop a point at its spawning location. ([978250](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trailrender-doesnt-leave-trail-on-the-first-position-unit))
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Material ctor crashing with null shader/material (now it will correctly throw managed nullref exception) (971263)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed OpenGL errors in the Editor due to mismatched of color and depth MSAA samples.
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Vulkan multiple display support.
    
*   Graphics: Metal: Fix occassional GPU hang/crash when dispatching compute shader (950983)
    
*   Graphics: Renderer AABB position is no longer reset to zero in case of zero extents ([856906](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/meshrenderer-dot-bounds-dot-center-is-not-transformed-if-extents-are-set-to-0))
    
*   IL2CPP: Corrected the behavior of `DateTime.TryParse` with the .NET 4.6 profile. ([948887](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-calling-datetime-dot-parse-in-il2cpp-build-for-uwp-throws-indexoutofrangeexception))
    
*   IL2CPP: Fix to allow link.xml files to contain comments at the beginning of the file. (956493)
    
*   IL2CPP: Fix to prevent an intermittent crash in the GC on PS4. (955991)
    
*   IL2CPP: Fixed ArgumentException when accessing `Socket.LocalEndPoint` on .NET 4.6. ([943671](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dot-net-4-dot-6-ios-udpclient-endreceive-fails-with-argumentexception-system-dot-net-dot-socketaddress-is-an-invalid-size))
    
*   IL2CPP: Fixed crash when calling `Socket.GetSocketOption` using the latest scripting runtime. ([952403](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-dot-net-4-dot-6-crash-at-il2cpp-icalls-system-system-net-sockets-socket-getsocketoptionobj-using-net-dot-sockets-dot-socket))
    
*   IL2CPP: Fixed unimplemented COM related internal calls in `System.Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal` class, such as `QueryInterface`. ([930386](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-unsupported-internal-cal-for-marshal-dot-queryinterface-errors-is-thrown-when-deploying-a-uwp-build-with-il2cpp-backend))
    
*   iOS: Changed default iOS launch screen color to the same (black) color as the Unity default launch screen
    
*   iOS: Fixed black screen flickering during screen autorotation. ([956026](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-metal-black-frame-slash-blink-using-auto-rotation-in-an-empty-project))
    
*   iOS: Fixed black screen flickering when changing orientation via script. ([953524](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-when-changing-screen-orientation-via-script-black-frame-appears))
    
*   iOS: Fixed case of FMOD failing to initialize if app was minimized during launch. FMOD is now re-initialized in such circumstances. ([915971](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-minimizing-app-during-its-initialization-breaks-the-sound-error-fmod-failed-to-initialize-the-output-device-displayed))
    
*   iOS: Fixed case of keyboard not being reopened when switching between input fields. ([789270](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-inputfield-keyboard-is-reopened-when-switching-between-inputfields))
    
*   iOS: Fixed changing Screen.autorotateToXXX not always working ([974181](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-device-orientation-doesnt-automatically-change-from-portraitupsidedown-to-portrait))
    
*   iOS: Fixed issue where the "Done" and "Cancel" buttons were missing from the keyboard in landscape mode on iPhone X. ([966702](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-done-and-cancel-buttons-are-missing-from-keyboard-in-landscape-mode-on-iphone-x))
    
*   iOS: Fixed missing DTD declaration in plist files written by Xcode API.
    
*   iOS: Fixed Screen.dpi return value for iPhone 8/8+/x. ([960914](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-a11-screen-dot-dpi-method-return-incorrect-number-of-dpi-on-iphone-8-8-plus))
    
*   iOS: Metal: Fixed RenderTexture.DiscardContents not working on Metal ([930907](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-ios-rendertexture-dot-discardcontents-doesnt-discard-contents))
    
*   iOS: Team Signing ID is no longer hidden when switching to manual signing. (960657)
    
*   Kernel: Corrected spelling mistakes in editor log output. (966081)
    
*   Kernel: Fix a precision issue on AMD cpu for windows and linux platform ([953111](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rsqrte-1-dot-0f-on-amd-cpu-doesnt-yeild-1-dot-0f))
    
*   Kernel: Fix scripting math Quaternion.Angle function so it returns 0 when quaternions are considered equal by operator== ([955655](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quaternion-dot-angle-returns-incorrect-angle-with-itself-if-quaternion-values-are-in-range-0-dot-5-0-dot-5))
    
*   Licenses: Fixed issue in license time verification logic when timezone changed. Previously a time verification error could be reported. (960760)
    
*   Licenses: Removed misleading "This should not be called in batch mode" message when returning license. ([877423](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-returning-licence-in-batch-mode-log-shows-a-message-with-this-should-not-be-called-in-batch-mode))
    
*   Multiplayer: Fixed issue with scene id determinism during scene post processing. ([935230](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unet-indexoutofrangeexception-is-thrown-after-restarting-editor-and-reconnecting-to-the-server))
    
*   OSX: Fixed case of game continuing to receive mouse input when running in the background on macOS. ([758806](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-build-run-in-background-is-ignored-in-the-build-when-running-an-unet-instance))
    
*   OSX: Fixed case of input from USB mouse disabling further touchpad input in `Input.GetAxis` on MacBooks. ([842835](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-input-from-usb-mouse-disables-further-touchpad-input-in-input-dot-getaxis-on-macbooks))
    
*   OSX: Fixed issue where hidden cursor would fail to hide when moved down to Dock. ([858220](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-hidden-cursor-doesnt-hide-when-moved-down-to-dock))
    
*   OSX: Fixed issue where the second screen was not shown on macOS when scene was built as 64bit or Universal. ([959498](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-multidisplay-2nd-screen-is-not-shown-when-scene-is-built-as-64bit-or-universal))
    
*   OSX: Metal: Fix hang when using MSAA on OSX 10.11 on Nvidia GPUs (952826)
    
*   OSX: Removed "Do you really want to quit?" dialog that appeared when closing windowed Mac Standalone build. ([984155](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-do-you-really-want-to-quit-dialog-appears-when-closing-windowed-macos-build))
    
*   Package Manager: Switched `Packages` folder name to `UnityPackageManager` in order to prevent conflict with nuget. ([941516](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packages-folder-scanned-by-editor-causing-compilation-errors))
    
*   Particles: Fixed issue where particle bounds were not being calculated correctly when transform scale was non-uniform. ([977520](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-bounds-are-not-being-calculated-correctly-when-transform-scale-is-non-uniform))
    
*   Particles: Fixed issue with Align to Velocity and 3D Rotation where local space particles could align inconsistently. ([970786](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/3d-rotation-velocity-align-along-with-3d-start-rotation-and-transform-rotation-causes-some-particles-to-rotate-incorrectly))
    
*   Particles: Fixed some inconsistencies with Pivot Offset and Bounding Boxes when using particle meshes. ([962121](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bounds-aabb-does-not-take-into-account-pivot-offset-combined-with-start-size))
    
*   Particles: Implemented more accurate handling of start delay and non-fixed-update. ([971841](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-dot-simulate-has-a-noticeable-delay))
    
*   Particles: Receive Shadows checkbox is now always ticked when using Deferred Rendering. ([960622](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renderer-receive-shadows-is-ticked-off-in-the-inspector-when-using-deferred-even-though-shadows-are-being-received))
    
*   Physics: Fix for disabled cloth not inheriting parents transform. ([946307](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-which-has-a-disabled-cloth-component-does-not-follow-parents-transform))
    
*   Physics: Fixed a crash on project load, caused by tiny meshes. ([953083](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physx-subsortquick-sort4-crashes-on-project-load))
    
*   Physics: Fixed crash in `PhysicsManager::SetColliderTransform`, that would be triggered when entering playmode after reloading a scene that had changes on disk. ([958230](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-crash-on-physicsmanager-setcollidertransform-while-entering-playmode-after-reloading-scene-that-had-changes-on-disk))
    
*   Physics: Fixed crashes when loading new scene and activating a Cloth GameObject in a coroutine. ([951789](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-on-coroutine-loading-new-scene-and-activating-cloth-gameobject))
    
*   Physics: Fixed error message when changing Mesh on Skinned Mesh Renderer on GameObjects that have a Cloth Component. (950424)
    
*   Physics: Fixed issue where Editor could freeze for a long time when adding a Cloth component to a Mesh with high vertex count. ([956856](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-editor-is-not-responding-for-a-while-when-adding-cloth-component-to-a-mesh-with-a-high-vertex-count))
    
*   Physics: Fixed issue where Physics Debugger's layer mask did not filter GameObject correctly. ([948201](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics-debugger-hide-layers-not-working-then-gameobject-have-different-layer))
    
*   Physics: Fixed potential crash in `Rigidbody::GetVelocity()` when opening certain scenes. ([955697](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-crashes-in-rigidbody-getvelocity-when-opening-the-specific-scene))
    
*   Physics: Set cloth pointer to null in SkinnedMeshRenderer when deactivating, else SkinnedMeshrenderer will try to use a de-allocated cloth object. ([946356](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cloth-undoing-mesh-removal-done-by-cloth-component-crashes-editor))
    
*   Scripting: Fix coroutines improperly being started from a GameObject that is being disabled or destroyed. ([863131](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-loadscene-when-onbecameinvisible-contains-waitforseconds))
    
*   Scripting: Fix issue with scripts in the editor being compiled with ENABLE\_IL2CPP instead of ENABLE\_MONO in some cases
    
*   Scripting: Fix menu items not getting removed when changing the MenuItem name and it contains consecutive forward slashes ([916305](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/new-menuitem-is-created-each-time-its-name-is-changed-when-the-name-contains-slash-slash))
    
*   Scripting: Fix to avoid GC allocations when invoking UnityEvents if the event handler does not use the parameters. ([967201](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-generates-garbage-when-unityevents-are-invoked-with-value-type-parameters-if-the-event-has-a-static-event-handler))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed case of mcs hanging while compiling C# script. (948492)
    
*   Scripting: Fixed case of StopCoroutine not working with nested IEnumerator coroutines. ([935955](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/coroutines-cant-be-stopped-by-stopping-their-parent-when-having-two-or-more-layered-coroutines))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed deadlocks and pauses when using `System.Threading.Monitor`. (827984)
    
*   Scripting: Fixed issue where resetting `SerializedProperty.prefabOverride` for one property could incorrectly reset other properties in some circumstances. ([960775](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serializedproperty-dot-prefaboverride-affects-other-properties-as-well))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed potential crash when calling `Activator.CreateInstance()` on an array type. ([964848](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-ves-icall-internalinvoke-when-activator-dot-createinstance-method-is-called))
    
*   Scripting: MonoDevelop: Fix startup-crash on macOS 10.13 when using multiple monitors ([955089](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-high-sierra-monodevelop-crashes-on-2nd-monitor))
    
*   Scripting: Text written to `System.Environment.Out` is no longer flushed to disk character-by-character.
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix issue in text field where backspace or delete can leave an invalid UTF-16 string with an unmatched surrogate character in the text field; fix a crash if string with unmatched surrogate is pasted into a text field. ([939578](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dot-net-4-dot-6-editor-crashes-scripting-icall-string-to-utf8-when-deleting-unicode-character))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fix ScriptUpdater not running when building some players leading to "Recursion error" message logged (952674)
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fixed crash in the updater when scripts contains a call to NetworkConnection.TransportRecieve() ([951261](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/updating-scripts-results-in-an-internal-error))
    
*   Scripting Upgrade: Fixed failure to resolve system types when building .NET player when user code guarded by `#if NET_CORE` used obsolete APIs. ([946498](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/api-updater-fails-to-update-vrsettings-dot-isdeviceactive-recursion-detected))
    
*   Services: Fix exception when building in Cloud Build with Performance Reporting enabled (996949)
    
*   Timeline: Corrected inability to drag multiple clips to another track. ([908228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cant-drag-multiple-clips-to-another-track))
    
*   Timeline: Dragging a clip in the timeline and releasing drag outside of the timeline window no longer freezes clip. ([946823](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-a-clip-in-the-timeline-and-releasing-drag-outside-of-the-timeline-window-freezes-clip))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed Animation Clip offset issue when dragging from the project view to an override track. ([906895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/timeline-animation-clip-offset-issue-when-dragging-from-the-project-view-to-an-override-track))
    
*   Timeline: Fixed issue where arrow would not show when you trimmed the right side of the clip, but would show when you extended it. (881902)
    
*   UI: Fix crash when undoing or applying changes on a prefab instance containing UI objects. ([930503](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-transform-getsiblingindex-when-deleting-child-gameobject-of-prefabs-instance-and-applying-changes-to-original-prefab))
    
*   UI: Fix hover issue when using mouse wheel to scroll in a scrollview (959647)
    
*   UI: Fixed a bug preventing renaming UI objects after duplicating them. ([950420](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cant-rename-a-ui-game-object-after-duplicating-it))
    
*   UI: Fixed a crash caused by UI Mask on Buid & Run when material is null. ([935112](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-mask-component-crashes-editor-after-you-build-and-run))
    
*   UI: Fixed an issue where calling `ClearProgressbar` did not remove the progress bar in synchronous code in the Editor on MacOS.
    
*   UI: Fixed an issue where the default UI shaders would ignore tiling and scaling. ([722133](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/material-uiimage-settextureoffset-doesnt-work-for-ui-image-component))
    
*   UI: Fixed problem with ScrollRect size recalculation on start. ([950200](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mobile-ui-scroll-rect-contents-leave-screen-boundaries-and-ignore-custom-colors-on-mobile-devices))
    
*   UI: Input Field now responds to character limit without delay on iOS and Android
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Fixed case of incorrect error message being thrown when doing Build & Run to a phone device when it is not connected. ([923345](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-misleading-error-message-when-trying-to-build-and-run-on-windows-phone-which-is-not-connected-to-pc))
    
*   Universal Windows Platform: Removed an error message that was previously printed to the log when the clipboard contents changed, but the app had no permissions to read it. ([916357](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-copying-text-from-microsoft-edge-throws-an-error-in-visual-studio))
    
*   Video: Fixed case of erroneous frame increments when in paused state. (937167)
    
*   Video: Fixed Media Foundation block using H264 videos on Windows. ([964280](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-playback-of-multiple-videos-dot-webm-freezes-unity-editor))
    
*   Video: \[Mac\] Fixed issue where certain h264 video clips would stop playing or lag after a few seconds if playing on a low-spec hardware. ([930947](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/specific-h264-video-clip-stops-playing-slash-lags-after-a-few-seconds-while-playing-it-on-a-specific-hardware))
    
*   Web: \[UnityWebRequest\] Fixed case of CompleteContent not being called in download handler on HTTP error. (954119)
    
*   WebGL: Fixed Application.isMobilePlatform ([911870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-dot-ismobileplatform-returns-false-on-webgl-projects-launched-on-mobile-browser))
    
*   WebGL: Fixed case of black screen during loading. ([900105](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-missing-progress-bar-for-some-projects-in-unity-5-dot-6-0f))
    
*   WebGL: Fixed divide by zero when AudioSource.pitch is zero ([946393](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-runtimeerror-integer-result-unrepresentable-when-audiosource-dot-pitch-is-zero-with-webassembly-enabled))
    
*   WebGL: Fixed missing slashes from blob url ([940942](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/www-returned-url-missing-slashes-webgl-build))
    
*   WebGL: Fixed MS Edge detection ([943241](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-browser-not-detected-correctly-when-checking-device-model-in-specific-browsers))
    
*   WebGL: Fixed UnityLoader backwards compatibility (5.6 and 2017.1 builds would fail when using 2017.2+ loader).
    
*   WebGL: Fixed wasm build when memory size is not multiple of 16. ([955246](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webassembly-built-game-didnt-work-if-webgl-memory-size-set-higher-than-default-value))
    
*   WebGL: `SHADER_API_MOBILE` is no longer defined on WebGL 2.0.
    
*   Windows: Fix the case where moving the window while the mouse cursor is locked could cause the window to go out-of-screen. ([932978](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cursor-dot-lockstate-and-moving-window-causes-window-to-go-out-of-screen))
    
*   XR: Correct updated API used in deprecation warning/error ([942738](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gesturerecognizer-dot-tappedevent-is-deprecated-and-suggests-using-ontappedevent-which-no-longer-exists))
    
*   XR: Correctoed Podfile version number. (962253)
    
*   XR: Fix Cardboard iOS target frame rate (950229)
    
*   XR: Fix crash in Holographic simulator when trying to exit play mode while paused and VR not enabled ([948127](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-when-pausing-unpausing-and-stopping-play-mode))
    
*   XR: Fixed case of Android VR terrain trees rotating with camera. (956544)
    
*   XR: Fixed case of `ScreenCapture.CaptureScreenshot()` capturing screenshots incorrectly when stereo instancing is enabled. (970906)
    
*   XR: Fixed inconsistency between generic and WSA-namespace code paths for whether the select button is pressed. (954940)
    
*   XR: GrabPass no longer grabs only one eye with Single Pass Rendering Method. ([953360](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/grabpass-grabs-only-one-eye-with-single-pass-rendering-method))
    
*   XR: Handle Android density (screen resolution) changes without crashing. (950540)