## Release Notes

### Known Issues in 2022.2.9f1

-   FrameDebugger: Frame Debugger VRAM memory leak([UUM-28065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-vram-memory-leak))

-   Inspector Framework: Editor freezes when selecting multiple assets with different Scripted Importers([UUM-27216](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freezes-when-selecting-multiple-assets-with-different-scripted-importers))

-   Metal: \[iOS\]Unable to maintain 120fps consistently in a near-empty scene on iPhone 13 Pro([UUM-5944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-target-fps-is-ignored-on-iphone-13-pro))

-   RP Foundation: \[Silicon\] Crash on ScriptableRenderLoopJob when machine is left idle while the Editor is in Play mode([UUM-25831](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/silicon-crash-on-scriptablerenderloopjob-when-machine-is-left-idle-while-the-editor-is-in-play-mode))

-   Shader System: Crash during project build when accessing Remote Shader Cache([UUM-27645](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-during-project-build-when-accessing-remote-shader-cache))

-   UI Toolkit Controls: Element UI disappears and NullReferenceException is thrown when dragging off the last or first element from the list in the Inspector([UUM-25833](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/element-ui-disappears-and-nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-dragging-off-the-last-or-first-element-from-the-list-in-the-inspector))

-   UI Toolkit Controls: Last ListView element size is calculated incorrectly when creating it through a script([UUM-28519](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/last-listview-element-size-is-calculated-incorrectly-when-creating-it-through-a-script))

-   UI Toolkit Framework: Cannot change scripts in Inspector window when in Debug mode([UUM-14069](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-change-scripts-in-inspector-window-when-in-debug-mode))

-   Universal RP: Flickering orbs appear when using RenderTargetHandle([UUM-26513](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/flickering-orbs-appear-when-using-rendertargethandle))

-   Visual Effects: SDF Baking causes memory to be allocated that isn\'t deallocated when in Play Mode and in Builds([UUM-25814](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sdf-baking-causes-memory-to-be-allocated-that-isnt-deallocated-when-in-play-mode-and-in-builds))

-   Web Platform: \"wasm-ld.exe\" is not terminated when canceling a WebGL Build during the \"Linking build.js (wasm)\" phase([UUM-20797](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wasm-ld-dot-exe-is-not-terminated-when-canceling-a-webgl-build-during-the-linking-build-dot-js-wasm-phase))

-   XR SRP: \[URP\] The Scene View flickers when hovering over it with the cursor([UUM-24656](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-urp-the-scene-view-flickers-when-hovering-over-it-with-the-cursor))

### 2022.2.9f1 Release Notes

#### Improvements

-   Burst: Added a Burst AOT setting for the kind of debug information generated for player builds.

-   Burst: Added a toggle for filtering out \".Generated\" jobs from the Burst Inspector target job list.

-   Burst: Added selection of line and highlight of selected line and selected lines register usage.

-   Burst: Added SIMD smell test to the Burst Inspector, highlighting ARM or x86-64 SIMD instruction differently depending on whether they work for packed or scalar inputs.

-   Burst: FunctionPointer&lt;delegate&gt;()::Invoke usage is now checked and patched to ensure the calling convention is compatible with burst.

-   Networking: Clarified error message in the logs when attempting to build a dedicated server player without having that platform\'s corresponding Dedicated Server Build support module installed.(UUM-22128)

#### Changes

-   Burst: Burst now only generates full debug information when \"Native Debug Mode Compilation\" and script debug information is enabled.

-   Burst: Changed burst inspector source location comments from \"===\" to either \";\" or \"#\" depending on the given assembly kind.

-   Burst: Changed horizontal code focus in the Burst Inspector to only scroll when branches fill more than half the space.

-   Burst: Changed so target job list in the Burst Inspector is a fold-able/expandable tree view, instead of a simple list.

-   Burst: Improved how optimisation remarks are displayed in the \"LLVM IR Optimisation Diagnostics\" tab in Burst Inspector to make them more useful.

#### Fixes

-   2D: Store directory path instead of file path as the last used asset path when doing a drag and drop to create a Tile Asset.([UUM-25250](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-drag-and-dropping-multiple-sprites-to-tile-palette-auto-selects-last-asset-to-create-tile-assets))

-   Android: Do not move files in custom asset packs to src/main/assets, preserve the directory structure as it is.(UUM-15109)

-   Android: Fixed an issue causing build to fail, if custom asset pack does not have a valid structure.([UUM-25501](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-aab-build-fails-when-using-asset-bundles))

-   Android: Fixed an issue where` Network.OperationalStatus `would always return Unknown for Android.([UUM-19683](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-network-dot-operationalstatus-method-returns-unknown-status-for-all-network-interfaces-when-observing-their-operational-state))

-   Android: Fixed the Time.deltaTime values so they are now stable on Android devices.([UUM-10244](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-time-dot-deltatime-values-arent-stable-on-specific-devices))

-   Asset Bundles: Fixed issue where UnloadAllAssetBundles does not unload scene bundles.([UUM-13510](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-bundles-are-not-unloaded-when-unloadallassetbundles-true-method-is-called))

-   Asset Import: Fixed import of file with extension as file name.([UUM-21730](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/files-without-extensions-are-not-being-imported-by-the-default-importer-anymore))

-   Build Pipeline: Fixed a BuildPipeline issue for the Android platform and MacStandalone builds which asks for a name and directory, despite having the last saved location details. This is triggered by using Ctrl+B (Windows) or Cmd+B (macOS).([UUM-19897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-and-run-asks-for-a-name-and-directory-when-it-was-previously-provided))

-   Burst: \"LLVM IR Optimisation Diagnostics\" tab in Burst Inspector was blank if \"Native Debug Mode Compilation\" was enabled; this is now fixed.

-   Burst: An issue that could cause function pointers to point to the wrong burst function, if a domain reload occurs and a compilation started before the reload, completes soon after.

-   Burst: Burst now updates its list of assembly paths if they change, for instance - adding packages that contain precompiled assemblies.

-   Burst: Crashes on 32bit cpus when an entry point with byvalue paramaters was called, when using dispatch (multiple supported cpu targets).

-   Burst: Enum values cast to integers in a format string previously output the enum type name; now the integer value is correctly output.

-   Burst: Fixed \"Assertion failed on expression: \"exception == SCRIPTING_NULL\" errors and editor crash when the project path contained multi-byte Unicode characters.

-   Burst: Fixed \"Callee/caller attribute ABI did not match!\" error that could occur in certain player builds when calling an entry point that had at least one struct-by-value parameter.

-   Burst: Fixed \"Plain Without Debug Information\" outputting assembly with debug information.

-   Burst: Fixed a hashing error that could occur when a struct implements a generic interface multiple times with different generic parameters.

-   Burst: Fixed a stall that could occur at Editor shutdown.

-   Burst: Fixed a` BadImageFormatException `error that could occur in DOTS Runtime builds.

-   Burst: Fixed an issue the definition order of overloaded methods with function pointer parameters would decide which overload was actually being used.

-   Burst: Fixed AoT linking error on Windows Link based linkers when file paths (typically user names/home folders) contain non-ASCII characters.

-   Burst: Fixed ARM vector registers not being highlighted.

-   Burst: Fixed BC1361 error when trying to compile large static readonly arrays.

-   Burst: Fixed bug in a small set of managed fallback versions of intrinsics, where the bitwise representation of float values would not be maintained.

-   Burst: Fixed Burst compilation on QNX Arm.

-   Burst: Fixed Burst Inspector sometimes throwing ArugmentOutOfRangeException when copying without color-tags from assembly that is colored.

-   Burst: Fixed burst tree view items leading to wrong job if some jobs where hidden from view by filter or similar.

-   Burst: Fixed compilation error when using` CompileFunctionPointer `from Burst in code compiled with Roslyn on .NET 7+.

-   Burst: Fixed compiler AccessViolationException that could occur when compiling two or more types with the same name but different source assemblies.

-   Burst: Fixed compiler crash when invoking` FunctionPointer `s based on a generic delegate in DOTS Runtime.

-   Burst: Fixed error when calling direct call method from background thread without having previously called a` BurstCompiler `API from the main thread.

-   Burst: Fixed internal compiler error that occurred when creating debug metadata from certain obfuscated dlls.

-   Burst: Fixed internal compiler error when implcitly converting an array to a` Span `.

-   Burst: Fixed managed fallback implementation of` Sse4_2.cmpestrs `.

-   Burst: Fixed module verification errors when using overloaded functions as function pointers.

-   Burst: Fixed namespace collision that could occur between Unity.Burst.Cecil.dll and the com.unity.nuget.mono-cecil package.

-   Burst: Fixed player build error that could occur if the project contains an assembly whose name doesn\'t match the assembly filename.

-   Burst: Fixed the inspector job tree view splitting jobs, with \'.\' in their parameters.

-   Burst: Fixed visual artifact in Burst Inspector, where block of enhanced code was cut at the bottom.

-   Editor: Added more protection if an error happens when loading a layout. That said there seems to be something fishy in the Luna package that creates the corrupted state in the first place. Package is shipped as a dll so I cannot debug it more.([UUM-12892](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-guiview-processinputevent-when-switching-editor-layout-after-luna-package-import))

-   Editor: Allow opening Focus inspector on non multi-edit objects.([UUM-19504](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-focused-inspector-window-cannot-be-opened-for-multiple-different-assets-via-the-inspector-window))

-   Editor: Copy hideflags to the cloned object when instantiating a GameObject.(UUM-22863)

-   Editor: Fixed a bug where AssetBundle builds could fail due to incorrectly reported errors about script serialization mismatches.([UUM-19452](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-bundles-fail-to-build-when-adding-a-serializefield-value-to-code-after-building-the-player))

-   Editor: Fixed a crash on shutdown when using the cli option -cacheServerWaitForUploadCompletion.

-   Editor: Fixed a regression that changed the default behaviour of animators on disabled.(UUM-27229)

-   Editor: Fixed an issue with the initialization of raytracing which could fail during certain frames.(UUM-26885)

-   Editor: Fixed backspace allowing to delete script name in AddComponent dialog.([UUM-3440](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pressing-the-backspace-key-returns-to-the-search-view-in-the-add-component-window-when-entering-the-new-script-name))

-   Editor: Fixed drag and drop crashes the editor if the window is docked.([UUM-23241](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-crashes-at-gdk-window-get-frame-extents-when-dragging-and-dropping-an-asset-in-a-custom-editor-window))

-   Editor: Fixed error when opening the \"Select Preset\" window while having a user defined Preset class assets.([UUM-11334](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-opening-the-input-manager-select-preset-window))

-   Editor: Fixed error while deleting a QueryBlock.([UUM-19945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quick-search-event-is-used-but-not-stopped-dot-error-is-thrown-when-deleting-search-areas-in-the-search-field))

-   Editor: Fixed hangup when evaluating SearchExpression, synchronous in main thread.(UUM-14546)

-   Editor: Fixed Mac Editor crash on sprite Drag &amp; Drop.([UUM-20950](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-pthread-kill-when-dragging-sprites-into-the-scene-view))

-   Editor: Fixed potential crash with non-gameobject selections during domain reload.

-   Editor: Fixed Slowdown spikes when moving an object in the scene caused by the PropertyDatabase.([UUM-22631](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-slowdown-spikes-when-moving-an-object-in-the-scene-caused-by-the-propertydatabase))

-   Editor: Fixed the inspector Transform Component foldout not responding to input on the top half.([UUM-16138](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transform-component-doesnt-collapse-when-pressing-on-the-top-pixels-of-the-component))

-   Editor: Fixed the prefab override indicator not being shown when the component was overridden.([UUM-3473](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-or-misplaced-prefab-override-indicator-on-some-components-in-inspector))

-   Editor: Make Light Probes be affected by back-facing triangles when baking with the GPU Lightmapper.(UUM-7699)

-   Editor: MeshFilter header update title on multi edit.([UUM-19502](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selecting-cube-and-sphere-gameobjects-at-the-same-time-the-inspector-window-shows-mesh-filter-for-both-of-them-as-sphere))

-   Editor: Show simple Unity version in release build. In source build or devMode: show the full version with revision.([UUM-23056](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/usability-unity-alpha-and-beta-versions-are-displayed-with-revision-in-the-title-bar-of-the-editor-when-the-latter-is-meaningless))

-   Entities Graphics: Fixed an issue where lightmaps involving lights inside subscenes could be too bright.(UUM-26371)

-   Entities Graphics: Fixed BatchRendererGroup occlusion probe sampling for HDRP.(UUM-24996)

-   GI: Fixed an issue where lightmaps would be swapped when entering playmode when the \"Reload Scene\" option is disabled.([UUM-21437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multiscene-lightmaps-are-swapped-when-entering-the-play-mode-for-the-first-time-after-loading-a-scene-when-reload-scene-is-disabled))

-   GI: Fixed the help link at the top of the Lighting Window.([UUM-25787](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-wrong-documentation-page-is-opened-when-clicking-the-help-icon-in-the-lighting-window))

-   Graphics: Fixed glitches on macOS when the rendering path is set to deferred.([UUM-21567](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/m1-glitches-and-graphical-artifacts-are-appearing-when-rendering-path-is-set-to-deferred-using-the-built-in-render-pipeline))

-   Graphics: Fixed SSAO in URP when using non-uniform rendering.(UUM-15795)

-   HDRP: Fixed a serialization issue affecting other objects.

-   IL2CPP: Fixed crash when memory profiler is enabled.([UUM-18685](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-crashes-on-il2cpp-vm-class-getvirtualmethod-when-building-and-running-a-project-using-il2cpp-scripting-backend))

-   IL2CPP: Fixed the InvalidCastException being thrown when you serialize jagged arrays using BinaryFormatter.([UUM-23156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-invalidcastexception-is-thrown-when-serializing-jagged-arrays-using-binaryformatter))

-   IL2CPP: Fixed UnintializedDataAccessException when processing a function pointer that has a function pointer as a parameter.([UUM-9030](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-not-correctly-handling-function-pointers-that-have-function-pointer-parameters-leads-to-build-failure))

-   Kernel: Fixed broken RECORD_ALLOCATION_SITES functionalit.(UUM-26702)

-   Kernel: Fixed crash resulting from UnityDefaultAllocator not tracking all allocations.(UUM-23090)

-   Kernel: Fixed potential crash at app shutdown.(UUM-26528)

-   Kernel: Fixed unstable test ThreadSafeLinearAllocator AllocDealloc_On10Threads_DoesNotCrash.(UUM-20607)

-   Linux: Fixed panel focus switching when arrow keys are pressed while in play mode.([UUM-21632](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-editor-panel-focus-gets-switched-when-the-arrow-keys-are-pressed-while-in-play-mode))

-   Linux: Fixed the Null Reference Exception thrown when you rotate in Scene View and move the cursor outside the boundary.([UUM-21895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-nullreferenceexception-thrown-when-rotating-in-scene-view-and-moving-the-cursor-outside-of-the-screen-boundaries))

-   macOS: The macOS Player no longer contains an empty area gap on each screen vertical side when rendering fullscreen on Macs with a notch.(UUM-12632)

-   Particles: Corrected sub-emitter simulation to ensure particle ribbons are connected in the correct order.([UUM-945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ribbon-mode-particle-curls-and-twists-in-random-places-when-using-sub-emitter-rate-over-distance-emission))

-   Particles: Fixed a Particle System rendering corruption.([UUM-21106](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-visualisation-corruption-occurs-when-rendering-particles-to-render-texture))

-   Prefabs: Disabled IMGUI ReorderableList elements when previewing overridden values PrefabMode InContext.([UUM-13618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-list-contains-the-wrong-number-of-elements-when-opening-it-through-a-prefab-variant))

-   Scene/Game View: Fixed windows implementing ISupportOverlays incorrectly showing Overlays targeting implementing classes.(UUM-26841)

-   Scripting: Fixed domain reload and reference issues on assets that reference scripts from a Plugin that\'s not loaded in the domain.([UUM-21935](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assets-inspector-window-duplicates-components-after-upgrading-the-project))

-   Scripting: Fixed possible crash when handling of asmdef compiled assemblies thats, thats been copied into the Project.

-   Scripting: Moving scripts around in project breaks GameObject\'s.([UUM-25445](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/script-component-no-longer-recognized-in-the-inspector-when-attached-to-a-gameobject-and-then-moved-to-a-different-location-in-the-project-window))

-   Scripting: When using additional file in rsp breaks MonoBehaviours.([UUM-25109](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/monobehaviour-is-not-recognized-in-script-files-when-additionalfile-parameter-is-used-in-csc-dot-rsp-file))

-   uGUI: Fixed CanvasRenderer color reset on Clear.([UUM-3527](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/color-set-through-canvasrenderer-dot-setcolor-is-reset-when-canvasrenderer-becomes-inactive))

-   uGUI: Fixed NullReferenceException in Image.sprite when setting a new Sprite and the current Sprite.Texture is null.([UUM-13053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ugui-nullreferenceexception-when-sprite-dot-texture-is-null))

-   uGUI: Fixed setting \"Additional Shader Channels\" in Canvas for all cases.([UUM-24730](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/canvas-gameobject-component-does-not-change-its-additional-shader-channel-value-when-everything-is-selected))

-   UI Elements: Fixed unable to expand import result in inspector\<br\>

    -   First, the ListView w/ Foldout header that is created by PropertyField was missing a setting so that it could receive pointer events when disabled\<br\>
    -   Second, the Clickable manipulator did not treat events properly when disabled.(UUM-26082)

-   UI Toolkit: Fixed color tint transitions not working for sprites.([UUM-25743](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/background-tint-doesnt-work-for-sprites-when-using-transitions))

-   UI Toolkit: Fixed ListView binding with negative indexes when a negative scrolloffset was applied.([UUM-12868](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/treeview-binding-breaks-when-using-negative-scrolloffset))

-   UI Toolkit: Fixed the UI document so it now has the correct size for multiple displays.([UUM-18757](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-rescale-of-the-ui-document-when-using-multi-display))

-   Universal RP: Fixed an issue so that deferred rendering now works correctly in builds with Accurate GBuffer Normals enabled.([UUM-25112](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nothing-is-rendered-in-the-built-urp-project-when-deferred-rendering-is-selected-and-accurate-g-buffer-normals-are-enabled))

-   Universal RP: Fixed issue where disabling/enabling ShadowCaster2Ds can create duplicate shadows.([UUM-16927](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-loss-when-enabling-and-disabling-shadowcaster2d))

-   URP: 2D - Fixed 2D Sprite Light &amp; Freeform Light fast normal map quality setting to correctly use normal map.(UUM-4613)

-   URP: 2D - Fixed a bug with ShadowCaster2D\'s shadow mesh bounds which was causing shadows to disappear.([UUM-19090](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-2d-shadow-disappears-even-though-light-is-in-range-of-the-sprite-when-using-light-2d))

-   URP: 2D - Fixed GC.Allocs with sorting layers in Light2D.([UUM-1929](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-light2d-dot-lateupdate-generates-136bytes-of-garbage-per-light2d-per-frame))

-   VFX Graph: Added extra memory to allow external threads to steal VFX update jobs.(UUM-22049)

-   VFX Graph: Added missing DepthNormal pass for Unlit &amp; Unify SSAO integration with Unlit for URP.([UUM-19559](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-opaque-unlit-output-dont-write-to-depth))

-   VFX Graph: Enabled renamed blackboard categories that have been duplicated to stay on screen.([UUM-17435](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-category-renaming-removes-duplicated-category-from-the-blackboard))

-   VFX Graph: Fixed a serialization issue causing a potential crash due to bounds computation.([UUM-25009](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-crash-with-bounds-paddings))

-   VFX Graph: Fixed an error raised in the console when undoing shader assignment in the Mesh output node.([UUM-16367](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undoing-actions-when-sahder-is-assigned-to-output-mesh-results-in-errrors-thrown-to-the-console))

-   VFX Graph: Fixed an issue where VFXs were not culled properly, causing flickering shadows.([UUM-14271](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-shadows-flicker-when-effect-is-out-of-camera-frustum))

-   VFX Graph: Fixed bounds padding so they are no longer ignored.([UUM-15655](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-bounds-padding-not-working))

-   VFX Graph: Fixed the play / pause button in the VFX Graph control panel so it now switches the icon depending on the current state.([UUM-5065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-control-panel-pause-button-stuck))

-   VFX Graph: Fixed unroll related shader compilation issue on DXC.(UUM-6058)

-   VFX Graph: Removed blackboard category with only spaces in the name.([UUM-17495](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-gets-argumentnullexception-value-cannot-be-null-dot-error-during-category-duplication))

-   VFX Graph: Safer GPUEvent when trying to append more event than destination capacity.([UUM-572](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/m1-editor-glitches-slash-freezes-or-mac-crashes-when-increasing-particle-capacity-in-vfx-graph-1))

-   Video: Fixed a crash in ImageFilters::Blit when saving a Timeline containing a Video while the Timeline is playing.([UUM-12908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-imagefilters-blit-when-saving-a-timeline-containing-a-video-while-the-timeline-is-playing))

-   Video: Fixed error when adding file:// to point at a local file in the VideoPlayer on Android.([UUM-16166](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/videoplayer-dot-url-on-android-does-not-work-with-file-uri-scheme-when-using-vp8-slash-webm-file))

-   Windows: Fixed a potential crash during Windows Player cleanup.([UUM-25383](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-screenmanagerwin-recommitcursorlock-when-screenmanager-pointer-is-used))

-   Windows: Fixed Build to source folder when the project build dir is deleted.(UUM-25240)

-   XR: Fixed TAA to work correctly with Foveated Rendering when using Non-Uniform Raster.(UUM-16324)

#### Package changes in 2022.2.9f1

#### Packages updated

-   com.unity.addressables:[1.21.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.addressables@1.21//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)&#x2192;[1.21.8](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.addressables@1.21//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

-   com.unity.burst:[1.8.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.burst@1.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)&#x2192;[1.8.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.burst@1.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

-   com.unity.purchasing:[4.5.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.purchasing@4.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)&#x2192;[4.6.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.purchasing@4.6//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

-   com.unity.scriptablebuildpipeline:[1.21.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.scriptablebuildpipeline@1.21//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)&#x2192;[1.21.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.scriptablebuildpipeline@1.21//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

-   com.unity.services.economy:[3.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.economy@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)&#x2192;[3.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.economy@3.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

-   com.unity.timeline:[1.7.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.timeline@1.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)&#x2192;[1.7.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.timeline@1.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)
