### Known Issues in 6000.2.0a4

- 3D Physics: Freeze when calling Rigidbody.SweepTestAll in a specific project
    ([UUM-96080](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/freeze-when-calling-rigidbody-dot-sweeptestall-in-a-specific-project))

- Android:  [iOS] [UnityWebRequest] Requests with "UnityWebRequest" are open for SSL Proxying
    ([UUM-97194](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-ios-unitywebrequest-requests-with-unitywebrequest-are-open-for-ssl-proxying))

- Animation: Fixes an issue where having a Blend Tree State opened in the Animator Window while the AnimatorController is not in the scene and going into Playmode will throw "BlendTreeWorkspace is NULL" error.
    ([UUM-93220](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-blendtreeworkspace-is-null-spammed-in-the-console-when-entering-play-mode-with-the-blend-tree-state-opened))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.2.0a5.*

- Asset - Database: Crash on MonoBehaviour::Transfer<GenerateTypeTreeTransfer> when the XR Interaction Toolkit Sample Assets are updated
    ([UUM-76934](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-monobehaviour-transfer-when-the-xr-interaction-toolkit-sample-assets-are-updated))

- DirectX12: Increased Memory usage when Update Mode 'On Demand' Realtime lights are used and DX12 API is selected
    ([UUM-90065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/increased-memory-usage-when-update-mode-on-demand-realtime-lights-are-used-and-dx12-api-is-selected))

- Serialization: Crash on MonoBehaviour::VirtualRedirectTransfer when closing Editor after removing HDRP and importing Water Samples before
    ([UUM-97847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-monobehaviour-virtualredirecttransfer-when-closing-editor-after-removing-hdpr-and-importing-water-samples-before))

- Serialization: The "UniversalRenderPipelineGlobalSettings.asset" is creating noise in the git diff when building a Player
    ([UUM-80052](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-universalrenderpipelineglobalsettings-dot-asset-is-creating-noise-in-the-git-diff-when-building-a-player))

- Serialization: [windows only] Switching Project when importing complete project does not import all assets and project opens incomplete
    ([UUM-88051](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/switching-project-when-importing-complete-project-does-not-import-all-assets-and-project-opens-incomplete))

- Text: Blurry Text
    ([UUM-49006](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blurry-text))

- Text: TMP 'Bold' Font Style is rendered with incorrect Font when a Font Asset without Bold typeface is selected
    ([UUM-97382](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-bold-font-style-is-rendered-with-incorrect-font-when-a-font-asset-without-bold-typeface-is-selected))

- UI Toolkit Framework: UI Toolkit buttons stop receiving inputs when entering the new Scene while holding a button during Scene change
    ([UUM-98080](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-buttons-stop-receiving-inputs-when-entering-the-new-scene-while-holding-a-button-during-scene-change))

- VFX Graph: Fix glitch with GPU events and strips, when the parent system particle count exceeds child system strip capacity
    ([UUM-97068](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-gpuevent-strip-and-instancing-issue))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.2.0a5.*

- 



### New 6000.2.0a4 Entries since 6000.2.0a1

#### Improvements

- 2D: Added support for Sprite GPU Skinning in ShaderGraph now that SRP-Batcher with GPU Skinning for 2D has landed. This will fix cases where "Material is using a shader without GPU deformation support. Switching the renderer over to CPU deformation" error is thrown.
    ([UUM-91954](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dot-dot-dot-is-using-a-shader-without-gpu-deformation-support-switching-the-renderer-over-to-cpu-deformation-dot-warnings-are-logged-when-gpu-skinning-is-set-to-gpu))<br>
    *First seen in 6000.2.0a1.*

- AI: Improved the calculation of NavMesh paths and corners to run slightly faster.

- Build Pipeline: Added .pdb files for all platform Editor extensions to improve logging and provide more detailed information in case of exceptions in platform Editor code.

- Documentation: Added a copy button to code examples in the documentation.

- Editor: Added a feature to recover `SceneBackup` files when launching the Editor. Users can open these backup files to restore and copy any lost work to their scene assets.

- Editor: Added the *3D Placement Mode* option to the Scene View preferences where you can use raycasts to select a better initial position for new objects. This resolves common poor placement cases like new objects clipping into existing geometry, being placed below the floor level, or being placed floating in space.

- GI: Modified OpenCL GPU device detection to occur when opening the Lighting window instead of during the first bake operation.

- iOS: Added support for `CAMetalDisplayLink`. This feature is enabled by default on iOS when built with Xcode 15 or later and run on iOS 17 or later. You can override it at runtime by modifying the `UnityAppController shouldUseMetalDisplayLink` method. By default, this feature is disabled on tvOS because most devices are slower. Failing to maintain the target FPS in complex scenes may produce misleading GPU hang warnings.
    ([UUM-66493](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-framerate-drops-when-screen-is-touched-on-promotion-devices))

- Kepler: Icon setting is exported to manifest

- Shadergraph: Added a new *Shader Graph UGUI Shaders* sample content set to the Shader Graph package. This sample demonstrates how to use the new Canvas target in Shader Graph to create dynamic UI elements. You can import this sample from the *Samples* tab in the Package Manager after selecting the Shader Graph package.

- Text: Improved the performance of Auto Text Generation \(ATG\) by implementing multithreading for generating multiple TextElement objects.

- URP: Implemented minor CPU optimizations for the Post-Processing Bloom effect.<br>
    Enhanced code quality by consistently using TextureDesc in place of RenderTextureDescriptor.



#### API Changes

- Android: Added: Add AndroidExternalToolsSettings.gradleUserHomePath which you can use to set gradle home path.
    (UUM-92289)

- Package Manager: Obsoleted: `IShouldIncludeInBuildCallback` interface and the `BuildUtilities.RegisterShouldIncludeInBuildCallback` API are now obsolete.

- Particles: Added: Added applyActiveColorSpace property to ParticleSystem, LineRenderer and TrailRenderer.

- Physics 2D: Added: Added Collider2D.CanContact method which will check if two colliders can ever come into contact.

- Physics 2D: Added: Added Collider2D.contactMask property which will calculate the effective LayerMask used taking into account both the Layer Collision Matrix settings along with any Rigidbody2D and Collider2D layer overrides specified.

- Physics 2D: Added: Added PolygonCollider2D.CreateFromSprite which will calculate new PolygonCollider2D path\(s\) from a specific Sprite as is done automatically when a PolygonCollider2D is first added.

- Physics 2D: Deprecated: ContactFilter2D.NoFilter method deprecated and replaced with static property ContactFilter2D.noFilter

- UI Toolkit: Added: You can now retrieve tabs and tab headers, as well as reorder tabs.



#### Changes

- Documentation: Review documentation about UniversalRenderer.CreateRenderGraphTexture

- Editor: Editor: Improved Request\(Generic\) API documentation.

- Graphics: r8g8b8a8 abd b8g8r8a8 srgb formats now report LoadStore unsupported on intel mac, since srgb writes are explicitly not supported there
    (UUM-95478)

- HDRP: Rendering Debugger - Moved decals to the Rendering Section.
    ([UUM-92304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/consolidating-rendering-settings-in-the-rendering-debugger))

- HDRP: Rendering Debugger - Moved lighting HDR settings to the Rendering Section.
    ([UUM-92304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/consolidating-rendering-settings-in-the-rendering-debugger))

- macOS: Updated the behavior for activating a secondary display so that it no longer forces the main window to switch to fullscreen mode.

- SRP Core: Rendering Debugger - Moved Render Graph to the Rendering Section.
    ([UUM-92304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/consolidating-rendering-settings-in-the-rendering-debugger))

- SRP Core: Rendering Debugger - Moved the GPU Resident Drawer to the Rendering Section.
    ([UUM-92304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/consolidating-rendering-settings-in-the-rendering-debugger))



#### Fixes

- 2D: Added layer mask in renderer 2d data for filtering options.
    (UUM-95754)

- 2D: Fix case where Texture Sampling is lost when reconnecting SpriteColor Node in Fragment
    ([UUM-71736](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-is-lost-when-reconnecting-spritecolor-node-in-fragment))

- 2D: Fix SRP-Batcher compatibility for URP 2D Default Shaders.
    ([UUM-95799](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-renderer-does-not-issue-draw-calls-correctly-when-using-srp-batcher))

- 2D: Fix TilemapRenderer in SRPBatch mode from applying Tilemap Color twice when rendering Tiles
    ([UUM-92738](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemaprenderer-color-will-display-significantly-darker-when-switching-a-tilemap-to-srp-batch-from-chunk-or-individual-mode))

- 2D: Fix Unlit shader for Skinning.
    ([UUM-92940](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-are-not-rotating-with-bones-when-the-sprite-type-is-unlit))

- 2D: Fix warning 'GetControlID at event ValidateCommand returns a controlID different from the one in the Layout event' is logged when undoing the deletion of an Edited Freeform 2D Light
    ([UUM-90726](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-getcontrolid-at-event-validatecommand-returns-a-controlid-different-from-the-one-in-the-layout-event-is-logged-when-undoing-the-deletion-of-an-edited-freeform-2d-light))

- 2D: Fixed an incorrect deprecation message.
    ([UUM-83095](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-renderersilhouette-property-in-shadowcaster2d-api-which-is-suggested-in-the-deprecated-message-of-userenderersilhouette))

- 2D: Fixed back buffer clear when pixel perfect crop frame is used.
    ([UUM-93255](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-mouse-sprite-leaving-a-trail-when-moved-outside-of-the-pixel-perfect-cameras-components-windowbox-borders))

- 2D: Fixed camera sorting layer not breaking batch correctly for URP 2D.
    ([UUM-90792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/normals-from-other-sorting-layers-are-passed-to-camerasortinglayertexture-when-2d-light-is-used))

- 2D: Fixed flickering in the Tile Palette window when the clipboard view is resized.
    ([UUM-93105](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemap-palette-preview-flickers-when-scaled))

- 2D: Unexpected zTest disable on default Sprite Lit shader
    ([UUM-92507](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-are-visible-through-mesh-when-sprite-lit-default-material-is-used))

- Accessibility: Updated the invalid USS selector.
    ([UUM-95326](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-unknown-pseudo-class-multiline-is-logged-when-the-animator-is-loaded-or-in-use-after-picking-motion-in-a-states-inspector))

- Android: Add missing pdb files for Android Editor extensions - AndroidPlayerBuildProgram.Data.pdb, AndroidPlayerBuildProgram.pdb, Unity.Android.Gradle.pdb, Unity.Android.Types.pdb, UnityEditor.Android.Extensions.pdb. This will improve Editor.log contents when there's an exception happening in Android editor code.
    (UUM-95520)

- Android: Add support for 16KB page sizes

- Android: Expose gradle user home directory property in Preferences-&gt;External Tools, allowing you to set a different gradle user home. This is useful if your user name consists of non ascii characters, since when gradle points to .gradle folder in user home directory, it sometimes doesn't work correctly, so previously your only option was to change your user name, now you'll have the option to change user home directory instead.
    (UUM-92289)

- Android: Fixed Integer input field now allowing negative integers to be entered.
    ([UUM-85618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-symbol-is-not-allowed-to-be-entered-when-entering-a-negative-number-in-an-inputfield-when-the-content-type-is-set-to-integer-number))

- Android: Update NDK to r27c \(from r23b\)

- Animation: Add missing "Duplicate" menu item when right clicking state and state machine nodes in the Animator window.
    ([UUM-92769](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-duplicate-option-is-available-when-right-clicking-states-in-the-animator-window-even-though-its-available-via-shortcut))

- Animation: Added a minimum width to the Layers and Parameters panel in the Animator Controller window.
    (UUM-95501)

- Animation: Added tooltips to AnimatorState inspector
    ([UUM-92756](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-state-inspector-variables-are-missing-tooltips))

- Animation: Fixed a crash in the Animation window that occurred when opening the clip selection list with an animation source containing a list of animation clips with null references.
    ([UUM-92603](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-editorutility-custom-naturalcompareobjectnames-when-selecting-the-animation-clip-selection-menu-with-a-specific-animation-clip-open))

- Animation: Fixed a minor bug where blend trees preview parameters were not updated when editing threshold values of individual motions in the blend tree.
    ([UUM-95775](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blend-tree-slider-does-not-adapt-if-outside-allowed-range-on-change-of-threshold-values))

- Animation: Fixed AnimatorControllerPlayable bug causing bindings rebuild on state transition.
    ([UUM-95943](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/value-discrepancy-between-lateupdate-and-onanimatorik-when-state-transition-occurs))

- Animation: Fixed error message in console appearing after opening the curve editor from the fbx importer.
    ([UUM-88924](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-error-is-thrown-in-the-console-when-play-mode-is-entered-in-maximized-mode-after-opening-the-curve-editor-window))

- Animation: Fixed import of generic avatar reading from previously imported human pose.
    ([UUM-86474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-rigging-two-bone-ik-gets-offset-when-a-generic-rig-avatar-is-created-from-an-existing-model))

- Animation: Fixed that Prefab instance properties were not properly restored when using Redo with Animation Preview turned on.
    ([UUM-96467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-childrens-transform-properties-are-not-properly-restored-when-redoing-actions-with-animation-preview-turned-on))

- Animation: Fixed the inspector help link for Animator Override Controller.
    ([UUM-92290](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-is-redirected-to-a-non-existing-online-documentation-link-when-clicking-on-help-button-inside-inspector-window-while-animator-override-controller-is-selected))

- Animation: Fixed the inspector help links for Entry state, Any state, Animation state, Exit state, Animation transition and Animation default transition.
    ([UUM-92755](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-nodes-documentation-leads-to-the-missing-page))

- Animation: Pasting a state or sub-state machine in the Animator window using ctrl + v will now paste it at the mouse's current position.
    ([UUM-92768](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copied-and-pasted-states-appear-in-a-set-location-instead-of-where-the-users-cursor-is-located-at-when-using-the-pasting-shortcut))

- Asset Bundles: Added a new flag BuildAssetBundleOptions.StripUnatlasedSpriteCopies to the legacy asset bundle system. Currently if we have assets in multiple bundles that depend upon a source texture we copy it into all relevant bundles. Setting this new flag will keep from creating duplicates if the texture does not belong to a sprite atlas.
    ([UUM-83067](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-instance-duplicates-when-there-is-no-dependency-duplication-between-asset-bundles))

- Asset Bundles: Fix rare race condition when loading AssetBundles using AssetBundle.LoadFromStream
    (UUM-92381)

- Asset Import: Fixed deadlock and memory leaks in unwrapCL.
    ([UUM-66897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-freezes-on-start-importing-when-the-project-contains-a-large-amount-of-fbx-models))

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed crash that could occur when script with scriptable object is moved and there hasn't been a domain reload, and scriptable object is used for write serialization. When fixing this bug, it was also discovered that rename would cause similar crash. It was also discovered that managed plugins also had problems with performing write serialization when moved/renamed - but didn't cause a crash.
    ([UUM-75114](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mono-custom-attrs-from-class-when-moving-a-certain-folder))

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed problem with Unity always reporting low disk space on macOS when project is located on external SDD drive formatted in fat/exfat.
    (UUM-82196)

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed sub asset object duplication when sub asset object name is empty.
    ([UUM-27014](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-invalid-asset-is-created-and-an-error-is-logged-when-duplicating-a-sub-asset-which-has-an-empty-name))

- Audio: Fixed a bug that would cause the audio to not resume properly after unpausing a timeline.
    ([UUM-91654](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-does-not-resume-playing-in-timeline-when-timescale-is-set-to-0-and-back-to-1-after-the-remainder-of-the-audio-has-passed-in-real-time))

- Audio: Fixed a bug where playing an Audio Clip with non-zero reverb mix on an Audio Source could cause successive silent Audio Clip playbacks with the same codec settings to play reverberated, and more generally be capable of cloning any behaviour from previously pooled codecs.
    ([UUM-92689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-reverb-zone-still-produces-sound-when-the-audio-source-volume-is-0))

- Audio: Fixed a bunch of tests that timed out on apple silicon machines.
    (UUM-34995)

- Audio: Fixed an issue that would cause a bunch of warnings to be logged in the console when playing an audio clip through a playable graph.
    ([UUM-83860](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multiple-errors-are-logged-in-the-console-when-playing-audio-clips-from-playable))

- Core: Fix VRS warning about ResetShadingRate inside a renderpass.
    (UUM-87671)

- Core: Fixed assertion on number of attachment allowed per pass
    (UUM-92921)

- Documentation: Fixed a link's text

- Documentation: Fixed code examples that accidentally had whitespace removed.

- Documentation: None

- Documentation: Update NDK version to r27c on documents
    (UUM-96481)

- DX12: Fix the memory of released textures accumulating, when the editor is out of focus.
    ([UUM-86354](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/allocated-graphics-memory-does-not-get-released-when-the-editor-is-out-of-focus-while-using-d3d12-graphics-api))

- DX12: Fixed a performance regression, when using render passes on DX12.
    (UUM-53690)

- Editor: - Fixed inconsistent default naming convention for new Build Profiles, and added a "Build Profile" label to the description in the Build Profile Settings header.

- Editor: Added help button for RenderGraphViewer
    ([UUM-85773](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendergraphviewer-no-help-button-that-could-lead-to-the-documentation-page))

- Editor: Addressed inconsistencies with available EditorToolContexts and EditorTools when Inspectors are locked or Property Windows are used. EditorToolContexts and EditorTools are now only available for the active selection.
    (UUM-95441)

- Editor: Asset Preview Window now renders a preview for assets with LODGroup components when no LOD group is selected.
    ([UUM-82810](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-preview-window-is-available-but-empty-on-speedtree-gameobjects))

- Editor: Ensuring that the Import Activity Window's import stats' asset path is in-sync with the actual path on disk.
    ([UUM-91551](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/import-activity-window-shows-none-in-the-asset-field-when-changing-the-path-of-the-asset))

- Editor: Fix for macOS player auto-connecting to the profiler.
    (UUM-95378)

- Editor: Fix UnauthorizedAccessException when edits are made to SceneTemplateSettings with Perforce Integration Enabled.
    ([UUM-93720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unauthorizedaccessexception-is-outputted-when-edits-are-made-to-scenetemplatesettings-with-perforce-integration-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed a bug that would cause the editor to throw a null reference exception when selecting a Video Clip.
    (UUM-83274)

- Editor: Fixed a bug where macOS Editor would stutter when navigating Scene View with Middle Mouse Button.
    (UUM-77258)

- Editor: Fixed a bug where using a render pipeline asset extending `UniversalRenderpipelineAsset` or its HDRP equivalent resulted in significantly longer build times
    ([UUM-73223](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-are-not-being-striped-and-build-times-increase-when-using-a-custom-subclass-of-universalrenderpipelineasset))

- Editor: Fixed a crash on WalkTypeTreeInternal when creating a serialized object from an object with an array bigger than 2Go.
    ([UUM-86580](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-walktypetreeinternal-when-selecting-the-texture-of-a-specific-fbx))

- Editor: Fixed a crash related to AudioSource with AudioRandomContainer when performing undo in play mode of clip added in edit mode.
    (UUM-88955)

- Editor: Fixed a crash when importing models using the legacy external material location mode.
    ([UUM-92285](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-externalmaterialscreationpostprocesscallback-when-importing-specific-asset))

- Editor: Fixed a memory leak in the native collection used for Render Graph hash calculation.
    (UUM-95802)

- Editor: Fixed a SpriteAtlasImporter issue where texture platform settings for certain platforms \(such as iOS\) did not apply correctly and could not be edited through the inspector or relevant APIs.
    ([UUM-90066](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-atlas-override-for-ios-setting-remains-disabled-when-saving-its-change-to-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed AddBlitPass rendergraph function not working for XR multiview array texures.
    ([UUM-92499](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/only-the-left-screen-is-rendering-when-using-render-graph-fullscreen-blit-in-meta-quest-2))

- Editor: Fixed an edge case where objects dragged into the scene view would be too close to the scene camera if the Scene Grid was disabled, the Scene Camera FOV was very low, and there was no object under the cursor
    ([UUM-95510](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sw-unity-6-1-prefabs-are-instantated-close-to-scene-view-camera-when-the-grid-is-disabled-and-the-camera-fov-is-very-low))

- Editor: Fixed an infrequent crash when calling `Shader.WarmupAllShaders()`
    ([UUM-73239](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-detail-computeshadersnippetkey-when-entering-the-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed an instance where the editor would crash on start up if Overlays save data was corrupted.
    ([UUM-96961](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-burst-createcontext-when-opening-a-specific-project))

- Editor: Fixed an issue on Windows where some popups appear incorrectly scaled when displayed close to the border between two monitors with different DPI scaling settings.
    ([UUM-86925](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/debug-mode-popup-window-is-inaccessible-slash-cut-off-when-opened-on-widescreen-monitors-or-resizing-to-specific-editor-window-resolution))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where attempting to reset the QualitySettings would cause the editor to crash if they contained 1 or more Texture Mipmap Limit Groups.
    ([UUM-91590](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-when-resetting-quality-settings-after-adding-new-group-in-mipmap-limit-groups))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where navigating Scene View with a pen tablet would not work after returning to the Editor from another application.
    ([UUM-90436](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/can-not-navigate-through-the-scene-view-when-using-a-drawing-tablet))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where sprite flipbook shadows using sprite shadows were not correctly updating.
    ([UUM-74689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadowcaster2d-does-not-update-when-using-sprite-flipbook-animation))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the CameraOverlay's dropdown didn't list cameras with repeated names.
    ([UUM-95561](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-preview-does-not-detect-multiple-cameras-with-same-gameobject-name))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Shortcut Helper Bar did not reactivate after being disabled in the Preferences window.
    ([UUM-92862](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shortcut-helper-bar-does-not-appear-when-enabling-it-and-disabling-it))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where visionOS XR apps would only render to the left eye when using MSAA and RenderGraph.
    (UUM-95617)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where `GizmoType.NotInSelectionHierarchy` gizmos weren't restored after deselection.
    ([UUM-72297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gizmotype-dot-inselectionhierarchy-not-detected-correctly-when-nonselected-or-notinselectionhierarchy-is-defined))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with by moving Shader property _Basemap_TexelSize from global to UnityPerMaterial cbuffer. \( so now rendering debugger "culling stats" option makes urp/particles shader SRP Batcher compatible\).
    (UUM-85056)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the TextureImporter.GetAutomaticFormat API where it would return an unexpected format if the provided platform name referred to a platform for which the build support module was not installed.
    (UUM-95944)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the TextureImporter.GetAutomaticFormat API where it would return an unexpected format if the provided platform name referred to certain platforms \(such as iOS\).
    (UUM-93298)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with undo and redo operations not reverting the name when renaming a parameter in the Animator window.
    ([UUM-95807](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undoing-animator-parameter-name-change-breaks-references-to-it))

- Editor: Fixed AssetDatabase.AddObjectToAsset with object arguments not working on an asset created with AssetDatabase.CreateAsset within the same StartAssetEditing / StopAssetEditing scope.
    ([UUM-92732](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-errors-ere-thrown-on-the-first-use-of-assetdatabase-dot-startassetediting))

- Editor: Fixed Camera Editor focal length field processing value before it has been fully typed.
    ([UUM-96983](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-numbers-appear-when-typing-certain-values-into-focal-length-field))

- Editor: Fixed Color Picker's broken intensity selector after using RGB values.
    ([UUM-96564](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/choosing-new-hdr-colour-using-rgb-values-breaks-colour-on-intensity-selectors))

- Editor: Fixed corrupted uxml file opens in the UI Builder.
    (UUM-71448)

- Editor: Fixed corruption in FontEngine.GetFaceInfo.
    ([UUM-91772](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/facefont-value-of-fontengine-dot-getfaceinfo-will-become-0-when-fontengine-dot-loadfontface-is-called-multiple-times-for-the-same-font))

- Editor: Fixed crash when calling 'HasProperty' on a MaterialVariant with a missing ancestor.
    ([UUM-91723](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-getmaterialpropertybyindex-when-opening-a-specific-scene))

- Editor: Fixed crash when exiting and re-entering play mode with incomplete InstantiateAsync operations.
    ([UUM-86892](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-object-setcachedscriptingobject-when-entering-the-play-mode-immediately-after-stopping-asynchronous-operations-in-the-previous-play-mode-session))

- Editor: Fixed Creating preconfigured settings variants sets Active Input Handling to Input Manager \(Old\).
    (UUM-90681)

- Editor: Fixed Debug.Assert warning when atlas would grow too big for an editor font.
    ([UUM-85059](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assert-error-is-thrown-when-the-editor-language-is-set-to-one-of-the-experimental-ones-in-an-hdrp-project))

- Editor: Fixed dynamic resolution not updating when using the ScalableBufferManager API in URP.
    ([UUM-90878](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/resolution-adjustment-has-no-effect-when-allow-dynamic-resolution-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed editor crash when a null object is passed in to EnsureUniqueSiblingName
    ([UUM-91927](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-ensureuniquesiblingname-when-calling-gameobjectutility-dot-ensureuniquenameforsibling-with-a-null-argument))

- Editor: Fixed freeze within cyclic compositions where internal depth limit was not being observed
    ([UUM-49767](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-freezes-when-opening-a-project))

- Editor: Fixed graphics jobs toggle in projects settings when building for standalone targets.
    ([UUM-91713](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graphics-jobs-toggle-in-project-settings-is-ignored-when-building-for-different-standalone-targets))

- Editor: Fixed HDRP default managed stripping level
    (UUM-75420)

- Editor: Fixed imgui text placement when used alongside an icon
    ([UUM-92553](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/script-graph-connection-values-are-cut-off-when-both-show-connection-values-and-predict-connection-values-are-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed issue where pressing Shift+Tab in the inspector would focus a completely different tab.
    (UUM-87588)

- Editor: Fixed issue with Android builds adding extra file extensions when "Show all filename extensions" was enabled in Finder preferences on macOS 15.
    (UUM-87606)

- Editor: Fixed issue with text after superscript/subscript not being reset to its default size properly.
    ([UUM-87350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-text-size-does-not-adjust-after-superscript-rich-text-tag-when-using-fallback-fonts))

- Editor: Fixed issues with IMGUI's input field not updating properly when using certain methods such as Paste and Cut.
    ([UUM-95908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspector-window-tag-search-bar-is-not-populated-with-the-copy-pasted-text-when-using-ctrl-plus-v-to-paste-a-tag-name))

- Editor: Fixed IsValidFolder documentation to reflect behavior.
    ([UUM-75594](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetdatabase-dot-isvalidfolder-returns-false-when-checking-certain-project-folders))

- Editor: Fixed long component titles overlapping the navigation arrow in the Add Component window.
    ([UUM-91821](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/longer-component-titles-overlap-navigation-arrow-in-the-add-component-window))

- Editor: Fixed namespace stripping on managed class when class name contains the namespace.
    ([UUM-82870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serialization-error-when-editing-an-asset-with-a-class-starting-with-the-same-name-as-the-namespace-that-it-is-in))

- Editor: Fixed prefab editor ignoring gameobject structure changes such as adding or removing a component.
    ([UUM-72378](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-added-component-is-being-removed-form-the-prefab-when-reimporting-the-prefab))

- Editor: Fixed preventing crash caused by a null Heightmap::m_Heightmap.
    (UUM-92617)

- Editor: Fixed RadioButtonGroup getting cleared when selected in the UIBuilder.
    ([UUM-87770](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/radio-button-disappears-when-added-under-the-radiobuttongroup-and-the-parent-visual-element-is-selected))

- Editor: Fixed scrolling to the specified Visual Element in a OpenAndScroll method of a GraphicsSettingsInspectorUtility class.
    (UUM-93108)

- Editor: Fixed TMP's GetSpriteIndexFromName method.
    ([UUM-61436](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-index-cannot-be-found-when-using-the-getspriteindexfromname-method))

- Editor: Fixed UseDebugLibraries for GameCore visual studio debug projects.
    (UUM-95514)

- Editor: Fixed vertex snapping not working in Scene View for objects rendered through the GPU Resident Drawer.
    ([UUM-66422](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vertex-snapping-doesnt-work-when-the-gpu-resident-drawer-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixes EditorWindow sizing issues when dragging windows between displays with different DPI scales
    (UUM-91671)

- Editor: Fixes macOS player settings not showing in build profile when on non-matching OS editor
    (UUM-93341)

- Editor: Fixes unexpected platforms display in build profile player settings overrides for cross-compiling Standalone and Server platforms
    (UUM-84259)

- Editor: Handles.currentCamera is now a static access, in line with the rest of the Handles API
    (UUM-96274)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.2.0a3.*

- Editor: Hide Edit menu items added by Apple Intelligence
    (UUM-96160)

- Editor: Improved text clarity in Build Automation Modal Window
    (UCB-12554)

- Editor: Modified the Inspector so it now shows script names in the missing script error message.
    (UUM-95793)

- Editor: Presets dragged into the Hierarchy will now respect the Scene View placement preferences
    (UUM-92971)

- Editor: Prevent "Attempting to draw with missing bindings" warning from being reported in some cases.
    ([UUM-92382](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-attempting-to-draw-with-missing-bindings-are-logged-when-opening-the-hdrp-vfx-template-sample-scene))

- Editor: Preventing false positives with invalid extraTransformPaths in the ModelImporter.
    ([UUM-91679](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/model-importer-inspector-values-are-not-updated-when-extraexposedtransformpaths-is-modified-by-script))

- Editor: Removed cursor for min max slider in the default runtime theme.
    ([UUM-88921](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-are-spammed-when-hovering-or-clicking-on-the-min-slash-max-slider-in-the-play-mode))

- Editor: Removed Legacy Bindings. Outdated bindings from Unity 5 and earlier have been removed.
    (UUM-90995)

- Editor: Stopped redundant setting of the progress in the Windows taskbar, speeding up the rate at which progress bars can be updated when the value isn't changed
    (UUM-93818)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.2.0a1.*

- Editor: The inspector window preview area dragline anchor should no longer be visible when it is not supposed to be. Additionally, the minimum height of the content area is now set to a non-zero value to prevent it from collapsing to nothing.
    ([UUM-93306](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-inspector-can-be-covered-when-scaling-the-horizontal-separator-bar))

- Editor: TransformAccessArray.Add APIs act consistently when passed null Transforms or invalid InstanceIds. They will add the null entry and print a warning to the console.
    ([UUM-70574](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transformaccessarray-dot-add-behaves-differently-when-the-argument-is-null-and-the-argument-is-an-int))

- Editor: UI Builder: the last Canvas Theme applied to a UXML Document by the user is now remembered.
    (UUM-17567)

- Editor: Updated a help url for URP camera.
    ([UUM-91777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-sub-dropdown-open-reference-buttons-do-not-work))

- Editor: Updated custom hash code generation to be stable and not rely on the captured variables for lambdas
    (UUM-88061)

- Editor: Updated documentation references for URP/HDRP Camera, Decal projector, Probe Volumes
    ([UUM-91777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-sub-dropdown-open-reference-buttons-do-not-work))

- Editor: Users are no longer incorrectly prompted to install Embedded Platforms via the Unity Hub in the Build Profiles window.
    (UUM-91570)

- Editor: \[Android\] Added a warning informing users that UnityEditor.AndroidCreateSymbols enumeration is now obsolete and updated documentation on Unity 6000.2.
    (UUM-93309)

- Editor: \[APV\] Impossible to switch between multiple Baking Set when multiple scenes are loaded additively.
    ([UUM-85396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apv-impossible-to-switch-between-multiple-baking-set-when-multiple-scenes-are-loaded-additively))

- GI: Don't clamp the environment sample count in the lighting window to 2048.
    ([UUM-96953](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/environment-samples-count-resets-to-2048-when-entering-a-higher-number))

- GI: Fixed a bug where the Renderer Light Probe Selection setting malfunctions when set to "Use Ambient Probe". Renderers outside the probe hull would, in fact, not use the ambient probe, but just get black SH data.
    ([UUM-96421](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renderers-outside-light-probe-hull-use-incorrect-ambient-probe-values-when-renderer-light-probe-selection-is-set-to-use-ambient-probe-and-light-probes-on-mesh-is-set-to-blend-probes))

- GI: Fixed an issue by reverting a change to packing made in Unity 6, which based lightmap packing order on the positions of lightmapped objects in the scene. This didn't have the intended effect, and significantly worsened utilization of lightmap space.
    ([UUM-96033](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightmap-packing-no-longer-packs-the-islands-in-the-order-of-biggest-to-smallest-resulting-in-a-worse-packing))

- GI: Fixed an issue where Adaptive Probe Volumes would exhibit seams on boundaries between different brick sizes when using sky occlusion or shadowmask mode.
    ([UUM-82982](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apv-the-anti-seam-system-doesnt-process-shadowmask-and-skyocclusion-data))

- Graphics: Added a warning message when using CopyTexture with compressed texture formats that aren't supported by the current device.
    ([UUM-89001](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/red-dots-are-rendered-when-copying-texture-with-astc-format-and-compressgpu))

- Graphics: Fix regression where texture data does not end up in Player builds when "Load texture data on demand" is enabled in the Editor settings and Mip Stripping is enabled.
    ([UUM-53664](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/there-are-artifacts-in-the-build-when-load-texture-data-on-demand-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed "A renderer material mask can't store more than 128 materials" error.
    ([UUM-95899](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-a-renderer-material-mask-cant-store-more-than-128-materials-dot-is-present-when-the-gpu-resident-drawer-is-disabled))

- Graphics: Fixed a bug with BatchRendererGroup picking when using different draw command types
    ([UUM-91356](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/brg-picking-skips-batchdrawcommandprocedural-when-selecting-the-gameobject-in-the-scene))

- Graphics: Fixed AddCopyPass rendergraph function not working for XR multiview array texures.
    (UUM-93821)

- Graphics: Fixed the error message language in exception thrown from `Screen.mainWindowDisplayInfo` when called on a non-supported platform.

- Graphics: Fixed vkUpdateDescriptorSetWithTemplateKHR crash on Linux when using Vulkan graphics API
    (UUM-85263)

- Graphics: Fixed Vulkan crash using WebCam textures on certain devices
    ([UUM-95365](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-webcamtexture-webcamtexture-dot-play-crashes-the-application-when-the-camera-is-started))

- Graphics: Fixed vulkan warnings that spams every frame when the application is actively running on a device.
    ([UUM-91109](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-warning-androidplayer-vulkan-general-warning-the-following-warning-was-triggered-vkdbgutilwarn003-dot-spammed-every-frame-when-the-application-is-actively-running-on-a-device))

- Graphics: FrameDebugger - Displaying color RT as grayscale.
    (UUM-96848)

- HDRP: Fix Sensor SDK related compilation issue on DXR-enabled HDRP projects.
    ([UUM-96082](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-build-fails-and-error-are-thrown-to-the-console-when-building-through-build-and-run-option))<br>
    *First seen in 6000.2.0a2.*

- HDRP: Fixed a missing attenuation of the albedo when converting the decal albedo + metal into specular color.
    (UUM-93089)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue in Rendering Debugger - Frame Settings  by adding 1 single panel for all cameras instead of having 1 panel per camera in the debugger.
    (UUM-91364)

- HDRP: Fixed artifacts when blending cascade shadows and distance shadowmask.
    ([UUM-90909](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lighting-artifacts-appear-in-shadowy-areas-when-using-specific-shadow-settings-in-a-volume-profile))

- HDRP: Fixed underwater collider bounds check to be accurate when the collider is rotated.
    ([UUM-96987](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-surface-underwater-collider-bounds-are-calculated-incorrectly-when-the-water-surface-is-rotated))

- HDRP: Improved the error message when fog volumes on screen exceed the limit. Emit this error message only in editor and development builds.
    (UUM-96154)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.2.0a1.*

- IL2CPP: Fixed case where IL2CPP can allocate more memory than needed.
    ([UUM-83219](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-metadata-allocates-more-memory-when-testing-with-2022-dot-3-compared-to-2021-dot-3))

- IMGUI: Fixed certain usages of &lt;a href&gt; tag in IMGUI
    (UUM-89093)

- Input System: Fixed an issue causing the player to fail to exit when using the new Input System and on Windows 11 \(24H2\).
    ([UUM-91181](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-exe-remains-open-as-a-background-task-after-closing-it-when-active-input-handling-is-set-to-input-system-package-new))

- iOS: On iOS, fixed a bug where if the "Prepare iOS for Recording" player setting was true and the "Mute Other Audio Sources" player setting was false, we would stop an external app's audio when first starting the Unity app.
    ([UUM-91252](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-external-audio-stops-playing-when-prepare-ios-for-recording-is-enabled))

- iOS: On iOS, fixed a few cases where the "Mute Other Audio Sources" player setting is false, but we would still end up stopping an external app's audio sometimes when starting a microphone recording.
    ([UUM-73479](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-external-audio-stops-playing-when-using-startmicrophone))

- Kepler: Fixed crash on Simulator with GLES.
    (UUM-95880)

- Kepler: Fixed depth buffering on Simulator.
    (UUM-95877)

- Kernel: Fixed job system atomic synchronization bug which could cause a hang.
    ([UUM-95841](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-player-freezes-when-the-weakobjectreference-dot-loadasync-and-release-are-called-in-quick-succession-on-iphone-14))

- Kernel: Reduced profiler overhead when executing For Each jobs.
    (UUM-92906)

- Kernel: Removed job batch kick in Transform jobs to fix performance regression.
    (UUM-92620)

- Linux: \[Linux\] "Shutdown worker was forced killed because it kept running. Worker x" are not appearing in the console
    (UUM-83635)

- Linux: 
    ([UUM-91555](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-assertion-failed-on-expression-success-and-and-actual-equals-equals-size-error-is-thrown-when-building-project-to-another-partition-with-a-different-file-system))

- macOS: Display.SetParams is now supported on MacOS Metal too.
    (UUM-92350)

- Package Manager: Entitlement packages are considered as supported in the Package Manager.
    (UUM-93155)

- Package Manager: Fixed a mismatch issue between the `packageId` and `version` fields of `PackageInfo`.
    (UUM-82657)

- Package Manager: Fixed editor freeze when pasting/typing large text in package manager search text field.
    ([UUM-92228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-manager-search-text-field-has-no-validation-and-leads-to-editor-freezes-1))

- Package Manager: Fixed packages that couldn't be removed from project.
    (UUM-82995)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where selecting an organization with spaces in its name in the inspector caused validation errors and won't let save changes. Organization names are now automatically sanitized to remove spaces.
    (UUM-79730)

- Particles: Fix particles colliding with only one terrain collider.
    ([UUM-91921](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-only-collides-with-one-terrain-collider-at-a-time-when-collision-type-is-set-to-world))

- Physics: Fixed performance regression on Physics.IgnoreCollisions\(\) when calling the specified API in large quantities
    ([UUM-91011](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bad-performance-when-executing-the-physics-dot-ignorecollisions-method-while-in-play-mode))

- Physics: Fixed PhysX error "Failed to create Convex Mesh from source mesh" from being thrown when looking around the Scene View while having the Physics Debug tab open.
    ([UUM-93081](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/failed-to-create-convex-mesh-from-source-mesh-physx-errors-are-thrown-when-looking-around-the-scene-view-while-collision-geometry-is-set-to-true))

- Physics: Fixed tooltip for DynamicFriction field in PhysicsMaterial asset.
    ([UUM-90780](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-physics-material-dynamic-friction-field-tooltip-is-set-to-one-of-friction-combine-field))

- Player: Fixed changing resolution width/height in player settings not applying upon building &amp; running the player if no other resolution settings changed.
    ([UUM-92847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/resolution-preferences-changed-in-the-player-settings-dont-apply-if-no-other-settings-change))

- Prefabs: Reconnect proxy parent in Prefab Stage.
    ([UUM-79087](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-mode-in-context-in-the-hierarchy-disappears-when-undoing-the-changes))

- Scene Manager: Fixed an issue where a new child GameObject was incorrectly placed under an existing child instead of the parent when the existing child was selected for renaming.
    ([UUM-95518](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sw-unity-6-1-gameobject-child-is-created-in-the-last-gameobject-of-the-hierarchy-instead-in-the-selected-gameobject-by-right-clicking))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue in the Scene and Game views where the Gizmos settings dropdown menu did not reappear after opening and dismissing it.
    ([UUM-92742](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-gizmo-dropdown-only-works-once-after-domain-reload))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed camera Gizmo flickering in the SceneView and texture stretching in the CameraOverlay.
    ([UUM-90851](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/flickering-gizmos-in-the-scene-view-when-the-game-view-is-detached))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed crashes when returning instanceIDs of ScriptableObjects from the new RenderPickingCallback.
    (UUM-76301)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed DebugDrawMode toggle throwing exception in the console.
    (UUM-96180)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed issue where Shortcut Manager would not alert the user when attempting to binding shortcuts containing reserved modifiers.
    ([UUM-90584](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shortcuts-conflict-warning-pops-up-when-the-shortcuts-are-different-shift-plus-mouse-2-and-mouse-2))

- Scripting: Fixed crash on reimport after High Definition RP package removal.
    ([UUM-78164](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-unityeditor-dot-assetdatabase-stopassetediting-when-removing-hdrp-package-after-having-imported-water-samples))

- Scripting: Fixed freeze in InstantiateAsync with very large objects
    (UUM-95656)

- Scripting: Fixed pool cleanup on entering playmode with domain reload disabled
    ([UUM-90313](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/object-pools-do-not-reset-when-re-entering-the-play-mode-with-reload-domain-disabled))

- Scripting: Fixed problem with mono script manager caches not being used for builtin types
    (UUM-91372)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.2.0a2.*

- Search: Fixed Search Empty View's description labels that are always truncated.
    ([UUM-93339](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-description-string-is-always-truncated))

- Shadergraph: Fixed "Element 'UnityEditor.UIElements.VisualSplitter' is missing a UxmlElementAttribute"  error logged in the Console when creating a new Node in ShaderGraph
    ([UUM-91210](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-element-unityeditor-dot-uielements-dot-visualsplitter-is-missing-a-uxmlelementattribute-logged-in-the-console-when-choosing-which-node-to-create-in-the-workspace))

- Shadergraph: Fixed "Shader error in 'ProBuilder6/Standard Vertex Color': 'PBRDeferredFragment'" error logged in the console when compiling the shader.
    ([UUM-94425](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-error-in-probuilder6-slash-standard-vertex-color-pbrdeferredfragment-error-alongside-other-warnings-from-the-same-shader-are-thrown-when-performing-a-build))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where certain warning messages did not display with enough contrast in the Blackboard and Graph Inspector.
    ([UUM-84408](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-node-settings-warning-text-colour-is-very-hard-to-read))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where horizontal scrollbars did not work as expected in the Blackboard or Graph Inspector.
    ([UUM-84034](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blackboard-horizontal-scrollbar-cant-be-scrolled-by-using-the-trackpad-gestures))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where the Main Preview could be resized beyond its containing Shader Graph window
    ([UUM-84357](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/main-preview-pane-in-shader-graph-can-be-resized-outside-of-bounds-of-window))

- Shadergraph: Fixed the generation of new artifact ID of ShaderGraph on every reimport.
    ([UUM-86662](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-different-artifact-is-produced-every-time-when-importing-a-shadergraph-asset))

- Shaders: Compute shader importer now generates data for all graphics APIs regardless of the current build target.
    (UUM-87931)

- Shaders: Ensure input semantics are treated as case insensitive.
    (UUM-95628)

- Shaders: Fixed corrupted shader property name after loading an asset bundle.
    ([UUM-59309](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/isbuiltin-method-skips-new-index-generation-when-called-in-a-different-order))

- Shaders: Fixed unexpected keyword space mismatch errors when having a compilation error on a raytracing shader.
    ([UUM-95909](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/keyword-space-mismatch-error-is-constantly-appearing-in-the-editor-console-window-when-shaders-contain-compilation-errors))

- SpeedTree: Fixed an issue on the Android player with normal maps using RBC compressed ETC Unorm texture compression resulting in rendering artifacts for the lighting pass on deferred renderers.
    ([UUM-84061](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/artifact-appears-when-generating-a-mipmap-on-normal-map-texture-and-android-platform-is-selected))

- SRP Core: Added a missing check for count parameter in DynamicArray.FindIndex.
    (UUM-96960)

- SRP Core: Fix async compute corner case where URP RenderGraph was waiting for a resource not written by any pass

- SRP Core: Fix pass culling corner case where resources are never deallocated when the last pass using them is culled
    (UUM-90208)

- SRP Core: Fix RenderGraphObjectPool and GetTempMaterialPropertyBlock\(\) usage in URP RenderGraph

- SRP Core: Serialization errors are thrown when "com.unity.render-pipelines.core" is added as a custom package.
    ([UUM-83161](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serialization-errors-are-thrown-when-com-dot-unity-dot-render-pipelines-dot-core-is-added-as-a-custom-package-and-graphics-window-is-opened))

- Terrain: Fixed bug in which grass details always used the default rendering layer mask.
    ([UUM-91894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-is-not-applied-properly-to-terrain-details-when-using-light-layers))

- Terrain: Terrain Detail objects are not rendered in the build when the Terrain is generated at runtime.
    ([UUM-62407](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-detail-objects-are-not-rendered-in-the-build-when-the-terrain-is-generated-at-runtime))

- Text: Fix crash when reading fonts
    (UUM-78322)

- Text: Switch default value for Multi-Atlas and Clear Dynamic Data on Build
    (UUM-96240)

- TextMeshPro: Fixed dropdown content being misplaced when created inside a prefab scene
    ([UUM-90249](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dropdown-ui-elements-have-their-content-misplaced-when-nested-inside-a-prefab-containing-a-root-object-with-a-canvas-component))

- uGUI: Fixed an issue where input coordinates were incorrectly scaled when using the Input System package with multiple displays and a primary monitor set to a non-native resolution.
    ([UUM-83346](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-parts-of-ui-do-not-respond-to-interactions-and-behave-unexpectedly-on-a-secondary-display-when-the-primary-display-is-resized))

- UI Elements: Added Undo support for rename operations in the UI Builder hierarchy.
    ([UUM-76676](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renaming-control-in-ui-builder-hierarchy-does-not-add-to-undo-history))

- UI Elements: Corrected the indentation for decorator drawers.
    ([UUM-89976](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/decoratordrawer-indentation-is-incorrect-when-it-is-called-with-editorgui))

- UI Elements: Fixed an issue where parent USS was visible in UI Builder in isolation mode.
    ([UUM-76821](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-undoing-selector-deletion-in-isolation))

- UI Elements: Fixed an issue where the child index was incorrect when dragging a nested item within another nested item in a CollectionView.
    ([UUM-82863](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/treeview-drag-and-drop-is-incorrect-when-dragging-a-parent-directly-below-itself))

- UI Elements: Fixed the unintended horizontal scrolling behavior triggered by drag operations in a CollectionView.
    (UUM-73197)

- UI Elements: Set character limit on UIBuilder library search field.
    ([UUM-76898](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-field-in-ui-builders-library-has-no-character-limit))

- UI Toolkit: Added padding to UI Builder inspector to compensate for TwoPaneSplitView styles.
    (UUM-90621)

- UI Toolkit: Added transition support for world-space rotation.
    (UUM-93351)

- UI Toolkit: Fix a rounding in the scrollview at runtime
    (UUM-95827)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.2.0a2.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed a bug where selectors with invalid pseudo states are still being tested for other parts to match, including a situation where being composed of a single invalid pseudo state would match all elements.
    ([UUM-91183](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/css-is-not-applied-when-using-uss-type-selector-gridbackground))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder where setting the max length of a text input field could crop the display of the value.
    ([UUM-89096](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/field-max-length-is-set-to-the-first-digit-typed-instead-of-entire-number-typed))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where a disabled `ListView` did not allow scrolling.
    ([UUM-73850](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-of-the-list-values-cant-be-seen-in-the-inspector-debug-mode-when-the-number-of-values-in-the-list-exceeds-22))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where dropdown menu items with the same name only appeared once in the list.
    (UUM-95962)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where unsaved changes in UI Builder were discarded when additional changes were made and saved outside the UI Builder window.
    ([UUM-76252](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-changes-are-discarded-when-more-changes-are-made-and-saved-outside-of-the-ui-builder-window))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where unused change notifications would not be cleared properly during the binding update.
    ([UUM-96370](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unused-propertychanged-callback-increases-the-time-taken-in-should-update-binding))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed attribute overrides not being applied to direct children of a template instance.
    ([UUM-95999](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-attribute-cannot-be-overridden-when-nested-inside-a-template3-template2-template1-instance))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed default attribute field factory in UI Builder.
    ([UUM-96356](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-error-occurs-when-selecting-a-script-element-in-the-ui-builder-hierarchy))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed document save while editing name attribute.
    (UUM-90258)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed dropdown menu positions appearing in the wrong place.
    ([UUM-74016](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-visual-effects-graphs-dropdown-menus-open-outside-the-window-when-another-window-is-selected-first))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed layout errors when displaying sorted data in a MultiColumnListView or MultiColumnTreeView.
    ([UUM-84285](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/layout-update-is-struggling-to-process-current-layout-error-appears-when-sorting-a-multicolumnlistview-using-the-comparison-property))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed layout issues in GenericDropwdownMenu that could cause Layout update is struggling error messages.
    ([UUM-97021](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playmode-dropdown-creates-continuous-layout-update-is-struggling-errors-at-certain-aspect-ratios))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed OptimizePick performance test regression.
    (UUM-92608)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed rendering bug caused by reading worldClip in GeometryChangeEvent.
    ([UUM-93269](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/stw-6-dot-1-ui-builder-inspector-fields-get-corrupted-when-docked-ui-builder-is-maximized))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed ScrollView mouse wheel scrolling so it takes into account other elements' dimensions in the scroll view hierarchy.
    ([UUM-93080](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scrollview-is-not-taking-into-account-header-height-when-handling-mouse-wheel-scrolling-in-multicolumntreeview))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed support for font definition in variable authoring
    (UUM-93167)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed tooltips in PropertyFields using a TooltipAttribute with elided text.
    ([UUM-90014](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspectors-custom-tooltip-is-displayed-incorrectly-when-the-name-is-truncated-in-ui-toolkit))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed undo doesn't update the code preview in UI Builder.
    (UUM-97081)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.2.0a4.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed USS alias variables are not shown in the variable list if the stylesheet is the default
    ([UUM-86891](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uss-alias-variables-are-not-shown-in-the-variable-list-when-nesting-variables))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed variable authoring UX issues
    (UUM-96372)<br>
    *First seen in 6000.2.0a1.*

- UI Toolkit: Fixed variables are not set properly when typing in text field
    (UUM-36922)

- UI Toolkit: Reduced memory leaks when minimizing and maximising UI Builder.
    ([UUM-86176](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-occurs-when-repeatedly-minimizing-and-maximizing-the-ui-builder-window))

- Undo System: Fixed a crash that could occur if events were added to the undo stack during the initial project load sequence, resulting in a desynchronization of the undo stack.
    ([UUM-96256](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-raiseexception-when-deleting-animation-transitions-in-a-specific-animation-controller))

- Undo System: Fixed a crash when rapidly undoing changes to DrivenRectTransforms.
    ([UUM-96074](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-ui-recttransform-setdrivenbyobject-when-rapidly-undoing-copies-of-a-specific-gameobject))

- Universal RP: Fix continuous error printing in URP Samples when assigned pipeline asset is not correct
    ([UUM-71851](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-package-samples-continuous-renderer-at-index-is-missing-for-camera-warnings-when-opening-sample-scene))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where blending DBuffer decal normals could causes NaNs.
    ([UUM-92200](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/decal-projector-produces-artifacts-when-the-normal-and-decal-are-projected-in-negative-z-direction-and-normal-blend-is-set-to-1))

- Universal RP: Fixed light cookie texture memory leak when entering Playmode.
    ([UUM-92512](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lights-with-cookies-generate-cookie-atlas-and-increase-memory-usage-every-time-when-play-mode-is-entered))

- Universal Windows Platform: Fix UWP project build when Visual Studio version is set to Latest Release
    ([UUM-90908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/system-dot-argumentexception-version-string-portion-was-too-short-or-too-long-parameter-input-is-thrown-when-building-the-project-for-uwp))

- URP: Fixed incorrect depth texture format exception when pressing the Ctrl key in the scene view with URP.
    (UUM-91862)

- UTR: Fixed the issue that UTR fails to run Hololens automated test. Previously, playmode tests are skipped for all WSAPlayer, to address this, this fix added Hololens-specific check to WSAPlayer platform handling in UTR.
    (UUM-74678)

- VFX Graph: Fix missing dirty calling SetTexture
    ([UUM-96024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-visualeffect-dot-settexture-doesnt-dirty-the-vfx-component))

- VFX Graph: Fix VFX ray tracing shader errors when using flipbook or when not using the color attribute.
    ([UUM-92519](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-and-run-player-results-in-shader-errors-when-raytracing-is-enabled))

- VFX Graph: Fixed errors when deleting Integration Update Rotation and Trigger blocks.
    ([UUM-95698](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/creating-and-then-deleting-the-integration-update-rotation-block-breaks-and-makes-unusable-vfx-graph))

- VFX Graph: Fixed invalid cast exception when clicking on template window headers
    ([UUM-92158](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidcastexception-is-thrown-after-clicking-on-a-group-header-in-create-new-vfx-asset-window))

- VFX Graph: Fixed occasional crashes when modifying exposed properties when in paused play mode.
    ([UUM-91916](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-storedgraphicsbuffer-getgfxbufferid-when-vfx-graph-property-is-modified-during-play-mode-and-application-dot-targetframerate-is-used-to-limit-fps))

- VFX Graph: Fixed undoing slider value change would not be reflected in the float field next to it
    ([UUM-92186](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undoing-slider-field-change-only-resets-slider-position-doesnt-undo-the-value-change))

- VFX Graph: Fixed unexpected visible particle if set alive is force to true in SG Opaque Output.
    (UUM-96266)

- VFX Graph: Fixed VFX command culling when using Custom Passes in HDRP.
    ([UUM-83094](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frustumculling-is-not-functional-in-vfx-graph-rendered-with-custom-pass-when-using-aggregatecullingparameters))

- VFX Graph: Fixed VFX Graph template window was empty when the Terrain Tool package is installed
    ([UUM-95871](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-template-window-is-empty-because-of-an-exception))

- VFX Graph: This PR fix resolves minor issues related to VFX graph content sample package.
    ([UUM-92137](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/floating-point-division-by-zero-at-kernel-warnings-are-thrown-when-opening-vfx-learning-sample-scenes))

- VFX Graph: This PR fix resolves minor issues related to VFX graph content sample package.
    ([UUM-92253](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/staticlightingsky-is-missing-an-attached-script-in-the-urp-vfx-learning-template-scene))

- VFX Graph: This PR fix resolves minor issues related to VFX graph content sample package.
    ([UUM-92641](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/output-decals-urp-link-in-learning-templates-directs-to-hdrp-lit-decal-documentation))

- Video: "AVFoundationVideoMedia error while reading" error is thrown when streaming from a URL with a signed token in VideoPlayer
    ([UUM-86076](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/avfoundationvideomedia-error-while-reading-error-is-thrown-when-streaming-from-a-url-with-a-signed-token-in-videoplayer))

- Video: Fixed an issue on output of stale frames by the Video Player after a seek.
    ([UUM-58173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-videoplayer-dot-time-and-pausing-results-in-incorrect-player-dot-frame-values))

- Video: Fixed corruption of alpha values when converting YUVA to RGBA with line widths that aren't a multiple of 8.
    ([UUM-86958](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/black-artifacts-appear-when-playing-a-certain-transcoded-video-using-videoplayer))

- VisionOS: Fixed issue where UNITY_USES_IADS was incorrectly being enabled for some builds.
    (UUM-96401)

- VisionOS: Fixed `Run As` behavior to honor the requested build setting from Unity in Xcode.
    (UUM-75465)

- Web: Fix "Deep Profiling" support on Web Platform.
    (UUM-93285)

- WebGL: Fix bug causing PlayDelayed\(\) to play audio immediately in WebGL builds, regardless of the delay specified.
    ([UUM-77285](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audiosource-dot-playdelayed-playing-sound-without-delay-when-in-webgl-build))

- WebGL: Fixed regressed behavior of the Target WebAssembly 2023, Enable Native C/C++ Multithreading, Memory Growth Mode, Enable Exceptions, and Maximum Memory Size player settings for the Web platform and Web derived platforms build profiles.
    (UUM-90159)

- Windows: Changed underlying API used to retrieve touch and mouse pointer state which resolves issues where Touchscreen interaction would be sending Mouse events.
    (UUM-92144)

- Windows: Fixed Windows player crashing when embedded into an executable that does not export the D3D12SDKPath symbol.
    ([UUM-96170](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-player-with-a-custom-exe-file-crashes-in-fixupd3d12sdkpath))

- Windows: On Windows, fixed a few related bugs where if the Unity project/player settings were set to the Quad speaker mode, we would still output sound to the front center channel on a 5.1 or 7.1 system. Similarly, if Unity is set to use the surround \(5.0\) speaker mode, we would still output sound to the LFE channel on a 5.1 or 7.1 system. This has now been fixed.
    ([UUM-52906](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-uses-a-centre-speaker-when-defaultspeakermode-is-set-to-quad))

- XR: Fixed a long-standing bug where predicted frame times were incorrect for OpenXR.

- XR: Fixed foveated rendering with D3D12 render passes.
    (UUM-85398)

- XR: Fixed incorrect Y-flip affecting certain Quest devices when using Shared Depth Buffer or depth submission modes.
    ([UUM-85895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quest-depth-buffer-is-inverted-when-using-shared-depth-buffer-or-depth-submission-mode-with-oculus-xr-or-openxr))

- XR: Updated XR Legacy Input Helpers \(com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers\) to version 2.1.12.




#### New 6000.2.0a4 Package Changes since 6000.2.0a1

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.sentis: [2.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.sentis@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.1.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.sentis@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.inputsystem: [1.12.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.13.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.test-framework: [1.4.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.test-framework@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.test-framework@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers: [2.1.11](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.1.12](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.learn.iet-framework: [4.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework@4.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.learn.iet-framework.authoring: [1.2.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework.authoring@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework.authoring@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.multiplayer.playmode: [1.3.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.multiplayer.playmode@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.multiplayer.playmode@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.dedicated-server: [1.3.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.dedicated-server@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.dedicated-server@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.memoryprofiler: [1.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.memoryprofiler@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.memoryprofiler@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.netcode.gameobjects: [1.12.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode.gameobjects@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.12.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode.gameobjects@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.ai.navigation: [2.0.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ai.navigation@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ai.navigation@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.tooling: [1.2.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.tooling@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.tooling@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.project-auditor: [1.0.0-pre.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.project-auditor@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.project-auditor@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

### Preview of Final 6000.2.0a4 Release Notes

#### Improvements

- AI: Improved the calculation of NavMesh paths and corners to run slightly faster.

- Build Pipeline: Added .pdb files for all platform Editor extensions to improve logging and provide more detailed information in case of exceptions in platform Editor code.

- Documentation: Added a copy button to code examples in the documentation.

- Editor: Added a feature to recover `SceneBackup` files when launching the Editor. Users can open these backup files to restore and copy any lost work to their scene assets.

- Editor: Added the *3D Placement Mode* option to the Scene View preferences where you can use raycasts to select a better initial position for new objects. This resolves common poor placement cases like new objects clipping into existing geometry, being placed below the floor level, or being placed floating in space.

- Editor: All colors from `Color.cs` are now presented as defaults in the Color Picker window.

- GI: Modified OpenCL GPU device detection to occur when opening the Lighting window instead of during the first bake operation.

- iOS: Added support for `CAMetalDisplayLink`. This feature is enabled by default on iOS when built with Xcode 15 or later and run on iOS 17 or later. You can override it at runtime by modifying the `UnityAppController shouldUseMetalDisplayLink` method. By default, this feature is disabled on tvOS because most devices are slower. Failing to maintain the target FPS in complex scenes may produce misleading GPU hang warnings.
    ([UUM-66493](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-framerate-drops-when-screen-is-touched-on-promotion-devices))

- Kepler: Icon setting is exported to manifest

- Shadergraph: Added a new *Shader Graph UGUI Shaders* sample content set to the Shader Graph package. This sample demonstrates how to use the new Canvas target in Shader Graph to create dynamic UI elements. You can import this sample from the *Samples* tab in the Package Manager after selecting the Shader Graph package.

- Text: Improved the performance of Auto Text Generation \(ATG\) by implementing multithreading for generating multiple TextElement objects.

- URP: Implemented minor CPU optimizations for the Post-Processing Bloom effect.<br>
    Enhanced code quality by consistently using TextureDesc in place of RenderTextureDescriptor.



#### API Changes

- Android: Added: Add AndroidExternalToolsSettings.gradleUserHomePath which you can use to set gradle home path.
    (UUM-92289)

- Package Manager: Obsoleted: `IShouldIncludeInBuildCallback` interface and the `BuildUtilities.RegisterShouldIncludeInBuildCallback` API are now obsolete.

- Particles: Added: Added applyActiveColorSpace property to ParticleSystem, LineRenderer and TrailRenderer.

- Physics 2D: Added: Added Collider2D.CanContact method which will check if two colliders can ever come into contact.

- Physics 2D: Added: Added Collider2D.contactMask property which will calculate the effective LayerMask used taking into account both the Layer Collision Matrix settings along with any Rigidbody2D and Collider2D layer overrides specified.

- Physics 2D: Added: Added PolygonCollider2D.CreateFromSprite which will calculate new PolygonCollider2D path\(s\) from a specific Sprite as is done automatically when a PolygonCollider2D is first added.

- Physics 2D: Deprecated: ContactFilter2D.NoFilter method deprecated and replaced with static property ContactFilter2D.noFilter

- UI Toolkit: Added: You can now retrieve tabs and tab headers, as well as reorder tabs.



#### Changes

- Documentation: Review documentation about UniversalRenderer.CreateRenderGraphTexture

- Editor: Editor: Improved RepositoryInfo API documentation.

- Editor: Editor: Improved Request\(Generic\) API documentation.

- Graphics: r8g8b8a8 abd b8g8r8a8 srgb formats now report LoadStore unsupported on intel mac, since srgb writes are explicitly not supported there
    (UUM-95478)

- HDRP: Rendering Debugger - Moved decals to the Rendering Section.
    ([UUM-92304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/consolidating-rendering-settings-in-the-rendering-debugger))

- HDRP: Rendering Debugger - Moved lighting HDR settings to the Rendering Section.
    ([UUM-92304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/consolidating-rendering-settings-in-the-rendering-debugger))

- macOS: Updated the behavior for activating a secondary display so that it no longer forces the main window to switch to fullscreen mode.

- SRP Core: Rendering Debugger - Moved Render Graph to the Rendering Section.
    ([UUM-92304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/consolidating-rendering-settings-in-the-rendering-debugger))

- SRP Core: Rendering Debugger - Moved the GPU Resident Drawer to the Rendering Section.
    ([UUM-92304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/consolidating-rendering-settings-in-the-rendering-debugger))



#### Fixes

- 2D: Added layer mask in renderer 2d data for filtering options.
    (UUM-95754)

- 2D: Fix case where Texture Sampling is lost when reconnecting SpriteColor Node in Fragment
    ([UUM-71736](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-is-lost-when-reconnecting-spritecolor-node-in-fragment))

- 2D: Fix SRP-Batcher compatibility for URP 2D Default Shaders.
    ([UUM-95799](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-renderer-does-not-issue-draw-calls-correctly-when-using-srp-batcher))

- 2D: Fix TilemapRenderer in SRPBatch mode from applying Tilemap Color twice when rendering Tiles
    ([UUM-92738](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemaprenderer-color-will-display-significantly-darker-when-switching-a-tilemap-to-srp-batch-from-chunk-or-individual-mode))

- 2D: Fix Unlit shader for Skinning.
    ([UUM-92940](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprites-are-not-rotating-with-bones-when-the-sprite-type-is-unlit))

- 2D: Fix warning 'GetControlID at event ValidateCommand returns a controlID different from the one in the Layout event' is logged when undoing the deletion of an Edited Freeform 2D Light
    ([UUM-90726](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-getcontrolid-at-event-validatecommand-returns-a-controlid-different-from-the-one-in-the-layout-event-is-logged-when-undoing-the-deletion-of-an-edited-freeform-2d-light))

- 2D: Fixed an incorrect deprecation message.
    ([UUM-83095](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-renderersilhouette-property-in-shadowcaster2d-api-which-is-suggested-in-the-deprecated-message-of-userenderersilhouette))

- 2D: Fixed back buffer clear when pixel perfect crop frame is used.
    ([UUM-93255](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-mouse-sprite-leaving-a-trail-when-moved-outside-of-the-pixel-perfect-cameras-components-windowbox-borders))

- 2D: Fixed camera sorting layer not breaking batch correctly for URP 2D.
    ([UUM-90792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/normals-from-other-sorting-layers-are-passed-to-camerasortinglayertexture-when-2d-light-is-used))

- 2D: Fixed case where when pushing property block by index to SpriteShapeRenderer crashes.
    ([UUM-90089](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-editorapplication-internal-callupdatefunctions-when-pushing-property-block-by-index-to-spriteshaperenderer))

- 2D: Fixed flickering in the Tile Palette window when the clipboard view is resized.
    ([UUM-93105](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemap-palette-preview-flickers-when-scaled))

- 2D: Fixed issue when the user sets a manual Cell Size for the Grid of the TileSet palette, the Tile Assets are placed based on calculation of their size instead of the manual Cell Size. Now, these Tiles will be placed based on the manual Cell Size.
    (UUM-92859)

- 2D: Fixed Tiles on the Tilemap that are marked invalid as the Tile Assets become invalid, do not become marked as invalid when the original Tile Assets become valid again. Now, these Tiles will not be marked as invalid if the original Tile Assets are restored by the user.
    (UUM-92856)

- 2D: Unexpected zTest disable on default Sprite Lit shader
    ([UUM-92507](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-are-visible-through-mesh-when-sprite-lit-default-material-is-used))

- Accessibility: Updated the invalid USS selector.
    ([UUM-95326](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-unknown-pseudo-class-multiline-is-logged-when-the-animator-is-loaded-or-in-use-after-picking-motion-in-a-states-inspector))

- AI: Fixed issue when sometimes the navigation path contained points outside of the shortest trajectory.
    ([UUM-78679](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmesh-is-incorrectly-calculating-the-shortest-path-when-the-path-is-rotated-over-the-edges-of-the-navmesh))

- Android: Add missing pdb files for Android Editor extensions - AndroidPlayerBuildProgram.Data.pdb, AndroidPlayerBuildProgram.pdb, Unity.Android.Gradle.pdb, Unity.Android.Types.pdb, UnityEditor.Android.Extensions.pdb. This will improve Editor.log contents when there's an exception happening in Android editor code.
    (UUM-95520)

- Android: Add support for 16KB page sizes

- Android: Expose gradle user home directory property in Preferences-&gt;External Tools, allowing you to set a different gradle user home. This is useful if your user name consists of non ascii characters, since when gradle points to .gradle folder in user home directory, it sometimes doesn't work correctly, so previously your only option was to change your user name, now you'll have the option to change user home directory instead.
    (UUM-92289)

- Android: Fixed an issue where StartActivityIndicator is displayed outside of safe area.
    (UUM-82238)

- Android: Fixed an issue where the AndroidActivityIndicatorStyle enum did not change.
    (UUM-79911)

- Android: Fixed an issue where the Player lost focus when UnityEngine.Handheld.StartActivityIndicator\(\) was used with the Facebook SDK.
    ([UUM-87564](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-player-loses-focus-when-using-unityengine-dot-handheld-dot-startactivityindicator-with-facebook-sdk))

- Android: Fixed Integer input field now allowing negative integers to be entered.
    ([UUM-85618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-the-symbol-is-not-allowed-to-be-entered-when-entering-a-negative-number-in-an-inputfield-when-the-content-type-is-set-to-integer-number))

- Android: Update NDK to r27c \(from r23b\)

- Animation: Add missing "Duplicate" menu item when right clicking state and state machine nodes in the Animator window.
    ([UUM-92769](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-duplicate-option-is-available-when-right-clicking-states-in-the-animator-window-even-though-its-available-via-shortcut))

- Animation: Added a minimum width to the Layers and Parameters panel in the Animator Controller window.
    (UUM-95501)

- Animation: Added tooltips to AnimatorState inspector
    ([UUM-92756](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-state-inspector-variables-are-missing-tooltips))

- Animation: Fixed a crash in the Animation window that occurred when opening the clip selection list with an animation source containing a list of animation clips with null references.
    ([UUM-92603](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-editorutility-custom-naturalcompareobjectnames-when-selecting-the-animation-clip-selection-menu-with-a-specific-animation-clip-open))

- Animation: Fixed a minor bug where blend trees preview parameters were not updated when editing threshold values of individual motions in the blend tree.
    ([UUM-95775](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blend-tree-slider-does-not-adapt-if-outside-allowed-range-on-change-of-threshold-values))

- Animation: Fixed AnimatorControllerPlayable bug causing bindings rebuild on state transition.
    ([UUM-95943](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/value-discrepancy-between-lateupdate-and-onanimatorik-when-state-transition-occurs))

- Animation: Fixed error message in console appearing after opening the curve editor from the fbx importer.
    ([UUM-88924](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-error-is-thrown-in-the-console-when-play-mode-is-entered-in-maximized-mode-after-opening-the-curve-editor-window))

- Animation: Fixed import of generic avatar reading from previously imported human pose.
    ([UUM-86474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-rigging-two-bone-ik-gets-offset-when-a-generic-rig-avatar-is-created-from-an-existing-model))

- Animation: Fixed that Prefab instance properties were not properly restored when using Redo with Animation Preview turned on.
    ([UUM-96467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-childrens-transform-properties-are-not-properly-restored-when-redoing-actions-with-animation-preview-turned-on))

- Animation: Fixed the inspector help link for Animator Override Controller.
    ([UUM-92290](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/user-is-redirected-to-a-non-existing-online-documentation-link-when-clicking-on-help-button-inside-inspector-window-while-animator-override-controller-is-selected))

- Animation: Fixed the inspector help links for Entry state, Any state, Animation state, Exit state, Animation transition and Animation default transition.
    ([UUM-92755](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-nodes-documentation-leads-to-the-missing-page))

- Animation: Pasting a state or sub-state machine in the Animator window using ctrl + v will now paste it at the mouse's current position.
    ([UUM-92768](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copied-and-pasted-states-appear-in-a-set-location-instead-of-where-the-users-cursor-is-located-at-when-using-the-pasting-shortcut))

- Asset Bundles: Added a new flag BuildAssetBundleOptions.StripUnatlasedSpriteCopies to the legacy asset bundle system. Currently if we have assets in multiple bundles that depend upon a source texture we copy it into all relevant bundles. Setting this new flag will keep from creating duplicates if the texture does not belong to a sprite atlas.
    ([UUM-83067](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-instance-duplicates-when-there-is-no-dependency-duplication-between-asset-bundles))

- Asset Bundles: Fix rare race condition when loading AssetBundles using AssetBundle.LoadFromStream
    (UUM-92381)

- Asset Import: Fixed deadlock and memory leaks in unwrapCL.
    ([UUM-66897](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-freezes-on-start-importing-when-the-project-contains-a-large-amount-of-fbx-models))

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed crash that could occur when script with scriptable object is moved and there hasn't been a domain reload, and scriptable object is used for write serialization. When fixing this bug, it was also discovered that rename would cause similar crash. It was also discovered that managed plugins also had problems with performing write serialization when moved/renamed - but didn't cause a crash.
    ([UUM-75114](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mono-custom-attrs-from-class-when-moving-a-certain-folder))

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed problem with Unity always reporting low disk space on macOS when project is located on external SDD drive formatted in fat/exfat.
    (UUM-82196)

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed sub asset object duplication when sub asset object name is empty.
    ([UUM-27014](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-invalid-asset-is-created-and-an-error-is-logged-when-duplicating-a-sub-asset-which-has-an-empty-name))

- Audio: Fixed a bug that would cause the audio to not resume properly after unpausing a timeline.
    ([UUM-91654](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-does-not-resume-playing-in-timeline-when-timescale-is-set-to-0-and-back-to-1-after-the-remainder-of-the-audio-has-passed-in-real-time))

- Audio: Fixed a bug where playing an Audio Clip with non-zero reverb mix on an Audio Source could cause successive silent Audio Clip playbacks with the same codec settings to play reverberated, and more generally be capable of cloning any behaviour from previously pooled codecs.
    ([UUM-92689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-reverb-zone-still-produces-sound-when-the-audio-source-volume-is-0))

- Audio: Fixed a bug with an Audio Source on Game Object with one or more Audio Effects potentially never becoming non-virtual \(inaudible\).
    ([UUM-91256](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-source-clip-is-not-audible-when-exceeding-a-high-number-of-active-audio-sources))

- Audio: Fixed a bunch of tests that timed out on apple silicon machines.
    (UUM-34995)

- Audio: Fixed an issue that would cause a bunch of warnings to be logged in the console when playing an audio clip through a playable graph.
    ([UUM-83860](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multiple-errors-are-logged-in-the-console-when-playing-audio-clips-from-playable))

- Build Pipeline: Fixed PackedAssetInfo.sourceAssetGUID and buildTimeAssetPath for Audio clips in the BuildReport.
    ([UUM-86728](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audioclips-do-not-have-path-or-guid-in-build-report-and-incorrect-size-is-reported))

- Core: Fix VRS warning about ResetShadingRate inside a renderpass.
    (UUM-87671)

- Core: Fixed assertion on number of attachment allowed per pass
    (UUM-92921)

- Documentation: Fixed a link's text

- Documentation: Fixed code examples that accidentally had whitespace removed.

- Documentation: Fixed links in API documentation pages for members with parameters or return values that are nested types.

- Documentation: None

- Documentation: Update NDK version to r27c on documents
    (UUM-96481)

- DX12: Fix the memory of released textures accumulating, when the editor is out of focus.
    ([UUM-86354](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/allocated-graphics-memory-does-not-get-released-when-the-editor-is-out-of-focus-while-using-d3d12-graphics-api))

- DX12: Fixed a performance regression, when using render passes on DX12.
    (UUM-53690)

- DX12: Fixed DirectML crash for test runs from command line and batch mode.
    (UUM-92761)

- DX12: Fixed memory leaks on DX12.
    (UUM-78506)

- Editor: - Fixed inconsistent default naming convention for new Build Profiles, and added a "Build Profile" label to the description in the Build Profile Settings header.

- Editor: Added help button for RenderGraphViewer
    ([UUM-85773](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendergraphviewer-no-help-button-that-could-lead-to-the-documentation-page))

- Editor: Addressed inconsistencies with available EditorToolContexts and EditorTools when Inspectors are locked or Property Windows are used. EditorToolContexts and EditorTools are now only available for the active selection.
    (UUM-95441)

- Editor: Asset Preview Window now renders a preview for assets with LODGroup components when no LOD group is selected.
    ([UUM-82810](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-preview-window-is-available-but-empty-on-speedtree-gameobjects))

- Editor: Ensuring that the Import Activity Window's import stats' asset path is in-sync with the actual path on disk.
    ([UUM-91551](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/import-activity-window-shows-none-in-the-asset-field-when-changing-the-path-of-the-asset))

- Editor: Fix for macOS player auto-connecting to the profiler.
    (UUM-95378)

- Editor: Fix UnauthorizedAccessException when edits are made to SceneTemplateSettings with Perforce Integration Enabled.
    ([UUM-93720](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unauthorizedaccessexception-is-outputted-when-edits-are-made-to-scenetemplatesettings-with-perforce-integration-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed :InvalidOperationException is thrown when switching to a custom Debug Draw Mode in Scene view.
    ([UUM-90587](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidoperationexception-is-thrown-when-switching-to-a-custom-debug-draw-mode-in-scene-view))

- Editor: Fixed a bug that would cause the editor to throw a null reference exception when selecting a Video Clip.
    (UUM-83274)

- Editor: Fixed a bug where macOS Editor would stutter when navigating Scene View with Middle Mouse Button.
    (UUM-77258)

- Editor: Fixed a bug where using a render pipeline asset extending `UniversalRenderpipelineAsset` or its HDRP equivalent resulted in significantly longer build times
    ([UUM-73223](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-are-not-being-striped-and-build-times-increase-when-using-a-custom-subclass-of-universalrenderpipelineasset))

- Editor: Fixed a crash on WalkTypeTreeInternal when creating a serialized object from an object with an array bigger than 2Go.
    ([UUM-86580](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-walktypetreeinternal-when-selecting-the-texture-of-a-specific-fbx))

- Editor: Fixed a crash related to AudioSource with AudioRandomContainer when performing undo in play mode of clip added in edit mode.
    (UUM-88955)

- Editor: Fixed a crash when importing models using the legacy external material location mode.
    ([UUM-92285](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-externalmaterialscreationpostprocesscallback-when-importing-specific-asset))

- Editor: Fixed a memory leak in the native collection used for Render Graph hash calculation.
    (UUM-95802)

- Editor: Fixed a SpriteAtlasImporter issue where texture platform settings for certain platforms \(such as iOS\) did not apply correctly and could not be edited through the inspector or relevant APIs.
    ([UUM-90066](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-atlas-override-for-ios-setting-remains-disabled-when-saving-its-change-to-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed AddBlitPass rendergraph function not working for XR multiview array texures.
    ([UUM-92499](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/only-the-left-screen-is-rendering-when-using-render-graph-fullscreen-blit-in-meta-quest-2))

- Editor: Fixed an edge case where objects dragged into the scene view would be too close to the scene camera if the Scene Grid was disabled, the Scene Camera FOV was very low, and there was no object under the cursor
    ([UUM-95510](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sw-unity-6-1-prefabs-are-instantated-close-to-scene-view-camera-when-the-grid-is-disabled-and-the-camera-fov-is-very-low))

- Editor: Fixed an infrequent crash when calling `Shader.WarmupAllShaders()`
    ([UUM-73239](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-detail-computeshadersnippetkey-when-entering-the-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed an instance where the editor would crash on start up if Overlays save data was corrupted.
    ([UUM-96961](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-burst-createcontext-when-opening-a-specific-project))

- Editor: Fixed an issue on Windows where some popups appear incorrectly scaled when displayed close to the border between two monitors with different DPI scaling settings.
    ([UUM-86925](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/debug-mode-popup-window-is-inaccessible-slash-cut-off-when-opened-on-widescreen-monitors-or-resizing-to-specific-editor-window-resolution))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where attempting to reset the QualitySettings would cause the editor to crash if they contained 1 or more Texture Mipmap Limit Groups.
    ([UUM-91590](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-when-resetting-quality-settings-after-adding-new-group-in-mipmap-limit-groups))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where baked only shadows caused an increase in light intensity.
    (UUM-93148)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where enabling the scene view camera overlay would trigger synchronous shader compilation even if asynchronous compilation is enabled.
    ([UUM-79996](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-are-compiled-synchronously-when-asynchronous-shader-compilation-is-enabled-and-the-camera-overlay-is-invoked))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where navigating Scene View with a pen tablet would not work after returning to the Editor from another application.
    ([UUM-90436](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/can-not-navigate-through-the-scene-view-when-using-a-drawing-tablet))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where progress bar status was not updated during Android and iOS builds.
    ([UUM-93106](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-process-only-shows-initializing-when-building-for-android))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where sprite flipbook shadows using sprite shadows were not correctly updating.
    ([UUM-74689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadowcaster2d-does-not-update-when-using-sprite-flipbook-animation))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the CameraOverlay's dropdown didn't list cameras with repeated names.
    ([UUM-95561](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-preview-does-not-detect-multiple-cameras-with-same-gameobject-name))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Shortcut Helper Bar did not reactivate after being disabled in the Preferences window.
    ([UUM-92862](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shortcut-helper-bar-does-not-appear-when-enabling-it-and-disabling-it))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where visionOS XR apps would only render to the left eye when using MSAA and RenderGraph.
    (UUM-95617)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where `GizmoType.NotInSelectionHierarchy` gizmos weren't restored after deselection.
    ([UUM-72297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gizmotype-dot-inselectionhierarchy-not-detected-correctly-when-nonselected-or-notinselectionhierarchy-is-defined))

- Editor: Fixed an issue with by moving Shader property _Basemap_TexelSize from global to UnityPerMaterial cbuffer. \( so now rendering debugger "culling stats" option makes urp/particles shader SRP Batcher compatible\).
    (UUM-85056)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the TextureImporter.GetAutomaticFormat API where it would return an unexpected format if the provided platform name referred to a platform for which the build support module was not installed.
    (UUM-95944)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with the TextureImporter.GetAutomaticFormat API where it would return an unexpected format if the provided platform name referred to certain platforms \(such as iOS\).
    (UUM-93298)

- Editor: Fixed an issue with undo and redo operations not reverting the name when renaming a parameter in the Animator window.
    ([UUM-95807](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undoing-animator-parameter-name-change-breaks-references-to-it))

- Editor: Fixed AssetDatabase.AddObjectToAsset with object arguments not working on an asset created with AssetDatabase.CreateAsset within the same StartAssetEditing / StopAssetEditing scope.
    ([UUM-92732](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-errors-ere-thrown-on-the-first-use-of-assetdatabase-dot-startassetediting))

- Editor: Fixed Camera Editor focal length field processing value before it has been fully typed.
    ([UUM-96983](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-numbers-appear-when-typing-certain-values-into-focal-length-field))

- Editor: Fixed Color Picker's broken intensity selector after using RGB values.
    ([UUM-96564](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/choosing-new-hdr-colour-using-rgb-values-breaks-colour-on-intensity-selectors))

- Editor: Fixed corrupted uxml file opens in the UI Builder.
    (UUM-71448)

- Editor: Fixed corruption in FontEngine.GetFaceInfo.
    ([UUM-91772](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/facefont-value-of-fontengine-dot-getfaceinfo-will-become-0-when-fontengine-dot-loadfontface-is-called-multiple-times-for-the-same-font))

- Editor: Fixed crash in Font Asset Creator.
    ([UUM-91956](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tlsf-free-when-generating-the-font-atlas))

- Editor: Fixed crash when calling 'HasProperty' on a MaterialVariant with a missing ancestor.
    ([UUM-91723](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-getmaterialpropertybyindex-when-opening-a-specific-scene))

- Editor: Fixed crash when exiting and re-entering play mode with incomplete InstantiateAsync operations.
    ([UUM-86892](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-object-setcachedscriptingobject-when-entering-the-play-mode-immediately-after-stopping-asynchronous-operations-in-the-previous-play-mode-session))

- Editor: Fixed Creating preconfigured settings variants sets Active Input Handling to Input Manager \(Old\).
    (UUM-90681)

- Editor: Fixed Debug.Assert warning when atlas would grow too big for an editor font.
    ([UUM-85059](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assert-error-is-thrown-when-the-editor-language-is-set-to-one-of-the-experimental-ones-in-an-hdrp-project))

- Editor: Fixed dynamic resolution not updating when using the ScalableBufferManager API in URP.
    ([UUM-90878](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/resolution-adjustment-has-no-effect-when-allow-dynamic-resolution-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed editor crash when a null object is passed in to EnsureUniqueSiblingName
    ([UUM-91927](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-ensureuniquesiblingname-when-calling-gameobjectutility-dot-ensureuniquenameforsibling-with-a-null-argument))

- Editor: Fixed freeze within cyclic compositions where internal depth limit was not being observed
    ([UUM-49767](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-freezes-when-opening-a-project))

- Editor: Fixed graphics jobs toggle in projects settings when building for standalone targets.
    ([UUM-91713](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graphics-jobs-toggle-in-project-settings-is-ignored-when-building-for-different-standalone-targets))

- Editor: Fixed HDRP default managed stripping level
    (UUM-75420)

- Editor: Fixed hovering over Layout integer field in UITK debugger to now highlights properly.
    ([UUM-87421](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hovering-over-vertical-layout-values-in-ui-toolkit-debugger-does-not-register-as-hovering-over-the-component))

- Editor: Fixed imgui text placement when used alongside an icon
    ([UUM-92553](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/script-graph-connection-values-are-cut-off-when-both-show-connection-values-and-predict-connection-values-are-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed implicit truncation shader warnings when using the multiplayer VR template.
    (UUM-84269)

- Editor: Fixed issue to Ensure ConsoleWindow Autoscroll works even if rows are added during OnGUI.
    ([UUM-83749](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/console-window-loses-focus-of-the-last-message-when-a-lot-of-messages-are-shown-in-a-row))

- Editor: Fixed issue where pressing Shift+Tab in the inspector would focus a completely different tab.
    (UUM-87588)

- Editor: Fixed issue with Android builds adding extra file extensions when "Show all filename extensions" was enabled in Finder preferences on macOS 15.
    (UUM-87606)

- Editor: Fixed issue with text after superscript/subscript not being reset to its default size properly.
    ([UUM-87350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tmp-text-size-does-not-adjust-after-superscript-rich-text-tag-when-using-fallback-fonts))

- Editor: Fixed issues with IMGUI's input field not updating properly when using certain methods such as Paste and Cut.
    ([UUM-95908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspector-window-tag-search-bar-is-not-populated-with-the-copy-pasted-text-when-using-ctrl-plus-v-to-paste-a-tag-name))

- Editor: Fixed IsValidFolder documentation to reflect behavior.
    ([UUM-75594](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetdatabase-dot-isvalidfolder-returns-false-when-checking-certain-project-folders))

- Editor: Fixed launch screen repeatedly changing window title to improve Editor launch speed.
    (UUM-93087)

- Editor: Fixed long component titles overlapping the navigation arrow in the Add Component window.
    ([UUM-91821](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/longer-component-titles-overlap-navigation-arrow-in-the-add-component-window))

- Editor: Fixed memory leak in LineRendering.
    ([UUM-91900](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-memory-leak-occurs-in-play-mode-when-using-direct3d12-graphics-api))

- Editor: Fixed namespace stripping on managed class when class name contains the namespace.
    ([UUM-82870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serialization-error-when-editing-an-asset-with-a-class-starting-with-the-same-name-as-the-namespace-that-it-is-in))

- Editor: Fixed prefab editor ignoring gameobject structure changes such as adding or removing a component.
    ([UUM-72378](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-added-component-is-being-removed-form-the-prefab-when-reimporting-the-prefab))

- Editor: Fixed preventing crash caused by a null Heightmap::m_Heightmap.
    (UUM-92617)

- Editor: Fixed RadioButtonGroup getting cleared when selected in the UIBuilder.
    ([UUM-87770](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/radio-button-disappears-when-added-under-the-radiobuttongroup-and-the-parent-visual-element-is-selected))

- Editor: Fixed scrolling to the specified Visual Element in a OpenAndScroll method of a GraphicsSettingsInspectorUtility class.
    (UUM-93108)

- Editor: Fixed Shader Sripping options after domain reload.
    ([UUM-92040](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-stripping-custom-options-disappear-when-exiting-play-mode-without-reloading-domain))

- Editor: Fixed TMP's GetSpriteIndexFromName method.
    ([UUM-61436](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sprite-index-cannot-be-found-when-using-the-getspriteindexfromname-method))

- Editor: Fixed UseDebugLibraries for GameCore visual studio debug projects.
    (UUM-95514)

- Editor: Fixed vertex snapping not working in Scene View for objects rendered through the GPU Resident Drawer.
    ([UUM-66422](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vertex-snapping-doesnt-work-when-the-gpu-resident-drawer-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixes EditorWindow sizing issues when dragging windows between displays with different DPI scales
    (UUM-91671)

- Editor: Fixes macOS player settings not showing in build profile when on non-matching OS editor
    (UUM-93341)

- Editor: Fixes unexpected platforms display in build profile player settings overrides for cross-compiling Standalone and Server platforms
    (UUM-84259)

- Editor: Hide Edit menu items added by Apple Intelligence
    (UUM-96160)

- Editor: Improved text clarity in Build Automation Modal Window
    (UCB-12554)

- Editor: Improved the readability of toggle fields in UI Toolkit Project Settings window.
    ([UUM-87286](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-space-between-checkbox-and-text-in-ui-toolkit-project-settings))

- Editor: Modified the Inspector so it now shows script names in the missing script error message.
    (UUM-95793)

- Editor: Presets dragged into the Hierarchy will now respect the Scene View placement preferences
    (UUM-92971)

- Editor: Prevent "Attempting to draw with missing bindings" warning from being reported in some cases.
    ([UUM-92382](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-attempting-to-draw-with-missing-bindings-are-logged-when-opening-the-hdrp-vfx-template-sample-scene))

- Editor: Preventing false positives with invalid extraTransformPaths in the ModelImporter.
    ([UUM-91679](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/model-importer-inspector-values-are-not-updated-when-extraexposedtransformpaths-is-modified-by-script))

- Editor: Removed context from SearcxhExpression.Parse which ensure SearchProvider.OnDisable is called sync and not through the finalizer.
    ([UUM-91490](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ondisable-not-always-called-for-searchprovider))

- Editor: Removed cursor for min max slider in the default runtime theme.
    ([UUM-88921](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-are-spammed-when-hovering-or-clicking-on-the-min-slash-max-slider-in-the-play-mode))

- Editor: Removed format from QueryFilterBlock context menu.
    ([UUM-74886](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-query-builder-input-string-was-not-in-a-correct-format-error-when-changing-query-options))

- Editor: Removed Legacy Bindings. Outdated bindings from Unity 5 and earlier have been removed.
    (UUM-90995)

- Editor: The inspector window preview area dragline anchor should no longer be visible when it is not supposed to be. Additionally, the minimum height of the content area is now set to a non-zero value to prevent it from collapsing to nothing.
    ([UUM-93306](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-inspector-can-be-covered-when-scaling-the-horizontal-separator-bar))

- Editor: TransformAccessArray.Add APIs act consistently when passed null Transforms or invalid InstanceIds. They will add the null entry and print a warning to the console.
    ([UUM-70574](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transformaccessarray-dot-add-behaves-differently-when-the-argument-is-null-and-the-argument-is-an-int))

- Editor: UI Builder: the last Canvas Theme applied to a UXML Document by the user is now remembered.
    (UUM-17567)

- Editor: Updated a help url for URP camera.
    ([UUM-91777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-sub-dropdown-open-reference-buttons-do-not-work))

- Editor: Updated custom hash code generation to be stable and not rely on the captured variables for lambdas
    (UUM-88061)

- Editor: Updated documentation references for URP/HDRP Camera, Decal projector, Probe Volumes
    ([UUM-91777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-sub-dropdown-open-reference-buttons-do-not-work))

- Editor: Updated Editor splash screen copyright to 2025.
    ([UUM-93029](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/u6-dot-1-splash-screen-needs-an-update-c-2024-should-be-updated-to-at-2025))

- Editor: Users are no longer incorrectly prompted to install Embedded Platforms via the Unity Hub in the Build Profiles window.
    (UUM-91570)

- Editor: \[Android\] Added a warning informing users that UnityEditor.AndroidCreateSymbols enumeration is now obsolete and updated documentation on Unity 6000.2.
    (UUM-93309)

- Editor: \[APV\] Impossible to switch between multiple Baking Set when multiple scenes are loaded additively.
    ([UUM-85396](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apv-impossible-to-switch-between-multiple-baking-set-when-multiple-scenes-are-loaded-additively))

- Game Core: Fixed filtering folder plugin directories during the build process.
    (UUM-92581)

- GI: Don't clamp the environment sample count in the lighting window to 2048.
    ([UUM-96953](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/environment-samples-count-resets-to-2048-when-entering-a-higher-number))

- GI: Fixed a bug where the Renderer Light Probe Selection setting malfunctions when set to "Use Ambient Probe". Renderers outside the probe hull would, in fact, not use the ambient probe, but just get black SH data.
    ([UUM-96421](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renderers-outside-light-probe-hull-use-incorrect-ambient-probe-values-when-renderer-light-probe-selection-is-set-to-use-ambient-probe-and-light-probes-on-mesh-is-set-to-blend-probes))

- GI: Fixed an issue by reverting a change to packing made in Unity 6, which based lightmap packing order on the positions of lightmapped objects in the scene. This didn't have the intended effect, and significantly worsened utilization of lightmap space.
    ([UUM-96033](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightmap-packing-no-longer-packs-the-islands-in-the-order-of-biggest-to-smallest-resulting-in-a-worse-packing))

- GI: Fixed an issue where Adaptive Probe Volumes would exhibit seams on boundaries between different brick sizes when using sky occlusion or shadowmask mode.
    ([UUM-82982](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apv-the-anti-seam-system-doesnt-process-shadowmask-and-skyocclusion-data))

- GI: Fixed bug where lighting data was missing for scenes loaded from asset bundles in editor.
    (UUM-93115)

- Graphics: Added a warning message when using CopyTexture with compressed texture formats that aren't supported by the current device.
    ([UUM-89001](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/red-dots-are-rendered-when-copying-texture-with-astc-format-and-compressgpu))

- Graphics: Fix regression where texture data does not end up in Player builds when "Load texture data on demand" is enabled in the Editor settings and Mip Stripping is enabled.
    ([UUM-53664](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/there-are-artifacts-in-the-build-when-load-texture-data-on-demand-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Fixed "A renderer material mask can't store more than 128 materials" error.
    ([UUM-95899](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-a-renderer-material-mask-cant-store-more-than-128-materials-dot-is-present-when-the-gpu-resident-drawer-is-disabled))

- Graphics: Fixed a bug with BatchRendererGroup picking when using different draw command types
    ([UUM-91356](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/brg-picking-skips-batchdrawcommandprocedural-when-selecting-the-gameobject-in-the-scene))

- Graphics: Fixed a crash when editor and player encountered unicode characters.
    ([UUM-92417](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/d3d12-pso-disk-cache-feature-crashes-if-paths-contain-non-ascii-characters))

- Graphics: Fixed AddCopyPass rendergraph function not working for XR multiview array texures.
    (UUM-93821)

- Graphics: Fixed GraphicsStateCollection::GetVariants\(\) memory allocation crash.
    ([UUM-86520](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-graphicsstatecollection-keywordsfromshaderandkeywordnames-when-calling-graphicsstatecollection-dot-getvariants))

- Graphics: Fixed seams visible for non-infinite instanced quads in the water surface.
    ([UUM-86738](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/seams-are-visible-on-the-water-system-when-multiple-tiles-are-used-and-their-surface-type-is-set-to-river))

- Graphics: Fixed the error message language in exception thrown from `Screen.mainWindowDisplayInfo` when called on a non-supported platform.

- Graphics: Fixed vkUpdateDescriptorSetWithTemplateKHR crash on Linux when using Vulkan graphics API
    (UUM-85263)

- Graphics: Fixed Vulkan crash using WebCam textures on certain devices
    ([UUM-95365](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-webcamtexture-webcamtexture-dot-play-crashes-the-application-when-the-camera-is-started))

- Graphics: Fixed vulkan warnings that spams every frame when the application is actively running on a device.
    ([UUM-91109](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-warning-androidplayer-vulkan-general-warning-the-following-warning-was-triggered-vkdbgutilwarn003-dot-spammed-every-frame-when-the-application-is-actively-running-on-a-device))

- Graphics: FrameDebugger - Displaying color RT as grayscale.
    (UUM-96848)

- HDRP: Fixed a missing attenuation of the albedo when converting the decal albedo + metal into specular color.
    (UUM-93089)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue in Rendering Debugger - Frame Settings  by adding 1 single panel for all cameras instead of having 1 panel per camera in the debugger.
    (UUM-91364)

- HDRP: Fixed an issue where the padding in the Lighting window was different between tabs.
    ([UUM-83840](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lighting-window-has-a-different-padding-in-tabs))

- HDRP: Fixed artifacts when blending cascade shadows and distance shadowmask.
    ([UUM-90909](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lighting-artifacts-appear-in-shadowy-areas-when-using-specific-shadow-settings-in-a-volume-profile))

- HDRP: Fixed High Definition Render Pipeline's Wizard to no longer assume a check fail while waiting a reply from the Package Manager and will display a specific pending icon.
    ([UUM-85253](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/usability-hdrp-wizard-calls-for-vr-fixes-when-opening-the-hdrp-wizard-a-second-time-after-they-have-already-been-applied-and-the-wizard-has-finished-checking))

- HDRP: Fixed underwater collider bounds check to be accurate when the collider is rotated.
    ([UUM-96987](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-surface-underwater-collider-bounds-are-calculated-incorrectly-when-the-water-surface-is-rotated))

- IL2CPP: Fixed case where IL2CPP can allocate more memory than needed.
    ([UUM-83219](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-metadata-allocates-more-memory-when-testing-with-2022-dot-3-compared-to-2021-dot-3))

- IMGUI: Fixed certain usages of &lt;a href&gt; tag in IMGUI
    (UUM-89093)

- Input: Fixed F16-F24 key code collision with Mouse0-7 and joystick keycode.
    (UUM-92365)

- Input System: Fixed an issue causing the player to fail to exit when using the new Input System and on Windows 11 \(24H2\).
    ([UUM-91181](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-exe-remains-open-as-a-background-task-after-closing-it-when-active-input-handling-is-set-to-input-system-package-new))

- Installer: Fixed an issue where the Unity Editor installer installed an outdated version of the Visual C++ 2010 Redistributable package for Windows.
    (UUM-92217)

- iOS: Fixed iOS Il2Cpp build not using toolchain selected in Xcode.
    (UUM-79684)

- iOS: On iOS, fixed a bug where if the "Prepare iOS for Recording" player setting was true and the "Mute Other Audio Sources" player setting was false, we would stop an external app's audio when first starting the Unity app.
    ([UUM-91252](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-external-audio-stops-playing-when-prepare-ios-for-recording-is-enabled))

- iOS: On iOS, fixed a few cases where the "Mute Other Audio Sources" player setting is false, but we would still end up stopping an external app's audio sometimes when starting a microphone recording.
    ([UUM-73479](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-external-audio-stops-playing-when-using-startmicrophone))

- Kepler: Fixed crash on Simulator with GLES.
    (UUM-95880)

- Kepler: Fixed depth buffering on Simulator.
    (UUM-95877)

- Kernel: Fixed job system atomic synchronization bug which could cause a hang.
    ([UUM-95841](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-player-freezes-when-the-weakobjectreference-dot-loadasync-and-release-are-called-in-quick-succession-on-iphone-14))

- Kernel: Reduced profiler overhead when executing For Each jobs.
    (UUM-92906)

- Kernel: Removed job batch kick in Transform jobs to fix performance regression.
    (UUM-92620)

- Linux: \[Linux\] "Shutdown worker was forced killed because it kept running. Worker x" are not appearing in the console
    (UUM-83635)

- Linux: 
    ([UUM-91555](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-assertion-failed-on-expression-success-and-and-actual-equals-equals-size-error-is-thrown-when-building-project-to-another-partition-with-a-different-file-system))

- macOS: Display.SetParams is now supported on MacOS Metal too.
    (UUM-92350)

- Mono: Fixed prevent the crash on domain reload when Windows Form is using a tooltip window.
    ([UUM-79065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-dispatchmessagew-when-using-folferbrowserdialog))

- Multiplayer: Fixed dedicated Server Default CLI Arguments now working.
    (UUM-93195)

- Package Manager: Changed resolution of 'default' version Feature Set dependency packages.
    ([UUM-78237](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/feature-sets-can-install-old-version-of-packages-even-though-not-a-dependency-of-any-other-package))

- Package Manager: Entitlement packages are considered as supported in the Package Manager.
    (UUM-93155)

- Package Manager: Fixed a mismatch issue between the `packageId` and `version` fields of `PackageInfo`.
    (UUM-82657)

- Package Manager: Fixed crash when package contains a dependency with null version in the package manifest.
    ([UUM-64442](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-stackwalker-getcurrentcallstack-when-opening-a-specific-project))

- Package Manager: Fixed editor freeze when pasting/typing large text in package manager search text field.
    ([UUM-92228](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-manager-search-text-field-has-no-validation-and-leads-to-editor-freezes-1))

- Package Manager: Fixed now packages installed on external `FAT32/exFAT` drives should not fail when the `mtime` is outside of the supported range.
    ([UUM-86351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-install-probuilder-package-when-project-is-located-in-an-external-fat32-slash-exfat-drive))

- Package Manager: Fixed packages that couldn't be removed from project.
    (UUM-82995)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where refreshing built in page in the Package Manager window makes scoped registry packages disappear.
    (UUM-92446)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where selecting an organization with spaces in its name in the inspector caused validation errors and won't let save changes. Organization names are now automatically sanitized to remove spaces.
    (UUM-79730)

- Package Manager: Improved loading time of package manager window.
    (UUM-90165)

- Particles: Fix particles colliding with only one terrain collider.
    ([UUM-91921](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-only-collides-with-one-terrain-collider-at-a-time-when-collision-type-is-set-to-world))

- Physics: Fixed performance regression on Physics.IgnoreCollisions\(\) when calling the specified API in large quantities
    ([UUM-91011](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bad-performance-when-executing-the-physics-dot-ignorecollisions-method-while-in-play-mode))

- Physics: Fixed PhysicsIgnoreLayerCollisionWithNegativeIndex test instability due to an assert being triggered off main thread, where the assert is incorrect.
    (UUM-92510)

- Physics: Fixed PhysX error "Failed to create Convex Mesh from source mesh" from being thrown when looking around the Scene View while having the Physics Debug tab open.
    ([UUM-93081](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/failed-to-create-convex-mesh-from-source-mesh-physx-errors-are-thrown-when-looking-around-the-scene-view-while-collision-geometry-is-set-to-true))

- Physics: Fixed tooltip for DynamicFriction field in PhysicsMaterial asset.
    ([UUM-90780](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-physics-material-dynamic-friction-field-tooltip-is-set-to-one-of-friction-combine-field))

- Physics 2D: Fixed now allowing "Rigidbody2D.SlideMovement.surfaceUp" to have zero magnitude. When this is used, it allows the "Rigidbody2D.Slide" feature to move in a "top down" view where all surfaces can be slid across.
    ([UUM-91870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody2d-dot-slide-api-does-not-have-the-needed-configuration-when-creating-a-2d-top-down-character-controller))

- Player: Fixed changing resolution width/height in player settings not applying upon building &amp; running the player if no other resolution settings changed.
    ([UUM-92847](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/resolution-preferences-changed-in-the-player-settings-dont-apply-if-no-other-settings-change))

- Prefabs: Reconnect proxy parent in Prefab Stage.
    ([UUM-79087](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-mode-in-context-in-the-hierarchy-disappears-when-undoing-the-changes))

- Scene Manager: Fixed an issue where a new child GameObject was incorrectly placed under an existing child instead of the parent when the existing child was selected for renaming.
    ([UUM-95518](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sw-unity-6-1-gameobject-child-is-created-in-the-last-gameobject-of-the-hierarchy-instead-in-the-selected-gameobject-by-right-clicking))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue in the Scene and Game views where the Gizmos settings dropdown menu did not reappear after opening and dismissing it.
    ([UUM-92742](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-gizmo-dropdown-only-works-once-after-domain-reload))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed camera Gizmo flickering in the SceneView and texture stretching in the CameraOverlay.
    ([UUM-90851](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/flickering-gizmos-in-the-scene-view-when-the-game-view-is-detached))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed crashes when returning instanceIDs of ScriptableObjects from the new RenderPickingCallback.
    (UUM-76301)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed DebugDrawMode toggle throwing exception in the console.
    (UUM-96180)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed issue where Shortcut Manager would not alert the user when attempting to binding shortcuts containing reserved modifiers.
    ([UUM-90584](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shortcuts-conflict-warning-pops-up-when-the-shortcuts-are-different-shift-plus-mouse-2-and-mouse-2))

- Scripting: Fixed crash on reimport after High Definition RP package removal.
    ([UUM-78164](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-unityeditor-dot-assetdatabase-stopassetediting-when-removing-hdrp-package-after-having-imported-water-samples))

- Scripting: Fixed freeze in InstantiateAsync with very large objects
    (UUM-95656)

- Scripting: Fixed pool cleanup on entering playmode with domain reload disabled
    ([UUM-90313](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/object-pools-do-not-reset-when-re-entering-the-play-mode-with-reload-domain-disabled))

- Search: Fixed Index Manager's "ForceRebuild" not re-indexing assets.
    ([UUM-87574](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/force-rebuild-index-doesnt-work-properly))

- Search: Fixed Search Empty View's description labels that are always truncated.
    ([UUM-93339](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-description-string-is-always-truncated))

- Shadergraph: Fixed "Element 'UnityEditor.UIElements.VisualSplitter' is missing a UxmlElementAttribute"  error logged in the Console when creating a new Node in ShaderGraph
    ([UUM-91210](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-element-unityeditor-dot-uielements-dot-visualsplitter-is-missing-a-uxmlelementattribute-logged-in-the-console-when-choosing-which-node-to-create-in-the-workspace))

- Shadergraph: Fixed "Shader error in 'ProBuilder6/Standard Vertex Color': 'PBRDeferredFragment'" error logged in the console when compiling the shader.
    ([UUM-94425](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-error-in-probuilder6-slash-standard-vertex-color-pbrdeferredfragment-error-alongside-other-warnings-from-the-same-shader-are-thrown-when-performing-a-build))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where certain warning messages did not display with enough contrast in the Blackboard and Graph Inspector.
    ([UUM-84408](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-node-settings-warning-text-colour-is-very-hard-to-read))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where horizontal scrollbars did not work as expected in the Blackboard or Graph Inspector.
    ([UUM-84034](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blackboard-horizontal-scrollbar-cant-be-scrolled-by-using-the-trackpad-gestures))

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where the Main Preview could be resized beyond its containing Shader Graph window
    ([UUM-84357](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/main-preview-pane-in-shader-graph-can-be-resized-outside-of-bounds-of-window))

- Shadergraph: Fixed the generation of new artifact ID of ShaderGraph on every reimport.
    ([UUM-86662](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-different-artifact-is-produced-every-time-when-importing-a-shadergraph-asset))

- Shaders: Compute shader importer now generates data for all graphics APIs regardless of the current build target.
    (UUM-87931)

- Shaders: Ensure input semantics are treated as case insensitive.
    (UUM-95628)

- Shaders: Fixed a performance regression in `Camera.Render()`.
    ([UUM-66763](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-dot-render-has-poor-performance-when-observed-in-2023-dot-3-and-later-streams))

- Shaders: Fixed a situation where some shaders would appear to cause an internal communcations error with the shader compiler.
    ([UUM-72852](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-shader-communication-error-gets-thrown-when-opening-the-project-which-is-using-bruteforce-shader))

- Shaders: Fixed corrupted shader property name after loading an asset bundle.
    ([UUM-59309](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/isbuiltin-method-skips-new-index-generation-when-called-in-a-different-order))

- Shaders: Fixed unexpected keyword space mismatch errors when having a compilation error on a raytracing shader.
    ([UUM-95909](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/keyword-space-mismatch-error-is-constantly-appearing-in-the-editor-console-window-when-shaders-contain-compilation-errors))

- SpeedTree: Fixed an issue on the Android player with normal maps using RBC compressed ETC Unorm texture compression resulting in rendering artifacts for the lighting pass on deferred renderers.
    ([UUM-84061](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/artifact-appears-when-generating-a-mipmap-on-normal-map-texture-and-android-platform-is-selected))

- SRP Core: Added a missing check for count parameter in DynamicArray.FindIndex.
    (UUM-96960)

- SRP Core: Fix async compute corner case where URP RenderGraph was waiting for a resource not written by any pass

- SRP Core: Fix pass culling corner case where resources are never deallocated when the last pass using them is culled
    (UUM-90208)

- SRP Core: Fix RenderGraphObjectPool and GetTempMaterialPropertyBlock\(\) usage in URP RenderGraph

- SRP Core: Fixed an issue in Render Graph Viewer where text would overlap after searching in the Pass List.
    ([UUM-83236](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/render-graph-viewer-window-title-text-is-overlapping-in-pass-lit-description-boxes))

- SRP Core: Serialization errors are thrown when "com.unity.render-pipelines.core" is added as a custom package.
    ([UUM-83161](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serialization-errors-are-thrown-when-com-dot-unity-dot-render-pipelines-dot-core-is-added-as-a-custom-package-and-graphics-window-is-opened))

- Terrain: Fixed bug in which grass details always used the default rendering layer mask.
    ([UUM-91894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-is-not-applied-properly-to-terrain-details-when-using-light-layers))

- Terrain: Terrain Detail objects are not rendered in the build when the Terrain is generated at runtime.
    ([UUM-62407](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-detail-objects-are-not-rendered-in-the-build-when-the-terrain-is-generated-at-runtime))

- Text: Fix crash when reading fonts
    (UUM-78322)

- Text: Switch default value for Multi-Atlas and Clear Dynamic Data on Build
    (UUM-96240)

- TextMeshPro: Fixed dropdown content being misplaced when created inside a prefab scene
    ([UUM-90249](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dropdown-ui-elements-have-their-content-misplaced-when-nested-inside-a-prefab-containing-a-root-object-with-a-canvas-component))

- uGUI: Fixed an issue where input coordinates were incorrectly scaled when using the Input System package with multiple displays and a primary monitor set to a non-native resolution.
    ([UUM-83346](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-parts-of-ui-do-not-respond-to-interactions-and-behave-unexpectedly-on-a-secondary-display-when-the-primary-display-is-resized))

- UI Elements: Added Undo support for rename operations in the UI Builder hierarchy.
    ([UUM-76676](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renaming-control-in-ui-builder-hierarchy-does-not-add-to-undo-history))

- UI Elements: Corrected the indentation for decorator drawers.
    ([UUM-89976](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/decoratordrawer-indentation-is-incorrect-when-it-is-called-with-editorgui))

- UI Elements: Fixed an issue where parent USS was visible in UI Builder in isolation mode.
    ([UUM-76821](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-undoing-selector-deletion-in-isolation))

- UI Elements: Fixed an issue where the child index was incorrect when dragging a nested item within another nested item in a CollectionView.
    ([UUM-82863](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/treeview-drag-and-drop-is-incorrect-when-dragging-a-parent-directly-below-itself))

- UI Elements: Fixed issue to prevent negative value for font-size in UIBuilder.
    ([UUM-76820](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-text-size-can-be-set-to-a-negative-number))

- UI Elements: Fixed the unintended horizontal scrolling behavior triggered by drag operations in a CollectionView.
    (UUM-73197)

- UI Elements: Set character limit on UIBuilder library search field.
    ([UUM-76898](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-field-in-ui-builders-library-has-no-character-limit))

- UI Toolkit: Added padding to UI Builder inspector to compensate for TwoPaneSplitView styles.
    (UUM-90621)

- UI Toolkit: Added transition support for world-space rotation.
    (UUM-93351)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed a bug where selectors with invalid pseudo states are still being tested for other parts to match, including a situation where being composed of a single invalid pseudo state would match all elements.
    ([UUM-91183](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/css-is-not-applied-when-using-uss-type-selector-gridbackground))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder where setting the max length of a text input field could crop the display of the value.
    ([UUM-89096](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/field-max-length-is-set-to-the-first-digit-typed-instead-of-entire-number-typed))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where a disabled `ListView` did not allow scrolling.
    ([UUM-73850](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-of-the-list-values-cant-be-seen-in-the-inspector-debug-mode-when-the-number-of-values-in-the-list-exceeds-22))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where an exception was thrown when you dock, maximize, or minimize the UI Builder window.
    ([UUM-93248](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertionexception-assertion-failure-value-was-false-error-is-thrown-when-unmaximizing-a-docked-ui-builder-window))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where dropdown menu items with the same name only appeared once in the list.
    (UUM-95962)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where the *Play* button remained highlighted after exiting Play Mode and moving the cursor away from the controls.
    ([UUM-92876](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/play-button-remain-highlighted-unless-hovered-on-the-toolbar-after-exiting-the-play-mode))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where unsaved changes in UI Builder were discarded when additional changes were made and saved outside the UI Builder window.
    ([UUM-76252](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-changes-are-discarded-when-more-changes-are-made-and-saved-outside-of-the-ui-builder-window))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where unused change notifications would not be cleared properly during the binding update.
    ([UUM-96370](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unused-propertychanged-callback-increases-the-time-taken-in-should-update-binding))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed attribute overrides not being applied to direct children of a template instance.
    ([UUM-95999](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-attribute-cannot-be-overridden-when-nested-inside-a-template3-template2-template1-instance))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed cropped UI Toolkit debugger overlays when working in high-DPI modes.
    (UUM-87669)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed default attribute field factory in UI Builder.
    ([UUM-96356](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-error-occurs-when-selecting-a-script-element-in-the-ui-builder-hierarchy))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed document save while editing name attribute.
    (UUM-90258)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed dropdown menu positions appearing in the wrong place.
    ([UUM-74016](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-visual-effects-graphs-dropdown-menus-open-outside-the-window-when-another-window-is-selected-first))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed layout errors when displaying sorted data in a MultiColumnListView or MultiColumnTreeView.
    ([UUM-84285](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/layout-update-is-struggling-to-process-current-layout-error-appears-when-sorting-a-multicolumnlistview-using-the-comparison-property))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed layout issues in GenericDropwdownMenu that could cause Layout update is struggling error messages.
    ([UUM-97021](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playmode-dropdown-creates-continuous-layout-update-is-struggling-errors-at-certain-aspect-ratios))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed OptimizePick performance test regression.
    (UUM-92608)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed order of min-max size fields in UI Builder.

- UI Toolkit: Fixed rendering bug caused by reading worldClip in GeometryChangeEvent.
    ([UUM-93269](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/stw-6-dot-1-ui-builder-inspector-fields-get-corrupted-when-docked-ui-builder-is-maximized))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed ScrollView mouse wheel scrolling so it takes into account other elements' dimensions in the scroll view hierarchy.
    ([UUM-93080](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scrollview-is-not-taking-into-account-header-height-when-handling-mouse-wheel-scrolling-in-multicolumntreeview))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed support for font definition in variable authoring
    (UUM-93167)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the two pane split view's drag line position is not updated after viewData is restored.
    ([UUM-83458](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-drag-line-position-is-not-updated-after-viewdata-is-restored))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the UI Builder library TreeView where the item header's toggle did not have the correct expanded state.
    ([UUM-92283](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-library-sections-dropdowns-are-not-working))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed tooltips in PropertyFields using a TooltipAttribute with elided text.
    ([UUM-90014](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspectors-custom-tooltip-is-displayed-incorrectly-when-the-name-is-truncated-in-ui-toolkit))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed undoing while editing a label in the viewport will no longer leave the in-place editing text box.
    ([UUM-87944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/text-field-does-not-disappear-if-ctrl-plus-z-is-pressed-while-editing-text))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed USS alias variables are not shown in the variable list if the stylesheet is the default
    ([UUM-86891](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uss-alias-variables-are-not-shown-in-the-variable-list-when-nesting-variables))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed variables are not set properly when typing in text field
    (UUM-36922)

- UI Toolkit: Reduced memory leaks when minimizing and maximising UI Builder.
    ([UUM-86176](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-occurs-when-repeatedly-minimizing-and-maximizing-the-ui-builder-window))

- Undo System: Fixed a crash that could occur if events were added to the undo stack during the initial project load sequence, resulting in a desynchronization of the undo stack.
    ([UUM-96256](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-raiseexception-when-deleting-animation-transitions-in-a-specific-animation-controller))

- Undo System: Fixed a crash when rapidly undoing changes to DrivenRectTransforms.
    ([UUM-96074](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-ui-recttransform-setdrivenbyobject-when-rapidly-undoing-copies-of-a-specific-gameobject))

- Undo System: Fixed escaping undo actions when selecting Cancel in dialog boxes.
    ([UUM-91449](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-undomanager-undo-when-undoing-spriteatlas-compression-value-changes))

- Universal RP: Fix continuous error printing in URP Samples when assigned pipeline asset is not correct
    ([UUM-71851](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-package-samples-continuous-renderer-at-index-is-missing-for-camera-warnings-when-opening-sample-scene))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where blending DBuffer decal normals could causes NaNs.
    ([UUM-92200](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/decal-projector-produces-artifacts-when-the-normal-and-decal-are-projected-in-negative-z-direction-and-normal-blend-is-set-to-1))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where undoing GameObject creation didn't work when the GameObject was focused.
    ([UUM-92601](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undoing-gameobject-creation-doesnt-work))

- Universal RP: Fixed light cookie texture memory leak when entering Playmode.
    ([UUM-92512](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lights-with-cookies-generate-cookie-atlas-and-increase-memory-usage-every-time-when-play-mode-is-entered))

- Universal Windows Platform: Fix UWP project build when Visual Studio version is set to Latest Release
    ([UUM-90908](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/system-dot-argumentexception-version-string-portion-was-too-short-or-too-long-parameter-input-is-thrown-when-building-the-project-for-uwp))

- URP: Fixed incorrect depth texture format exception when pressing the Ctrl key in the scene view with URP.
    (UUM-91862)

- URP: Fixed preview for URP overlay camera not rendering correct view. Now an explicit message explain it is not possible for theses cameras.
    ([UUM-83889](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/camera-preview-shows-view-from-last-selected-base-camera-for-overlay-cameras))

- URP: Fixed unclear error message while updating volume stack before Universal Render Pipeline is created.
    ([UUM-91000](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-error-is-thrown-when-updatevolumestack-function-is-called))

- UTR: Fixed the issue that UTR fails to run Hololens automated test. Previously, playmode tests are skipped for all WSAPlayer, to address this, this fix added Hololens-specific check to WSAPlayer platform handling in UTR.
    (UUM-74678)

- VFX Graph: Fix missing dirty calling SetTexture
    ([UUM-96024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-visualeffect-dot-settexture-doesnt-dirty-the-vfx-component))

- VFX Graph: Fix VFX ray tracing shader errors when using flipbook or when not using the color attribute.
    ([UUM-92519](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-and-run-player-results-in-shader-errors-when-raytracing-is-enabled))

- VFX Graph: Fixed errors when deleting Integration Update Rotation and Trigger blocks.
    ([UUM-95698](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/creating-and-then-deleting-the-integration-update-rotation-block-breaks-and-makes-unusable-vfx-graph))

- VFX Graph: Fixed incorrect capitalization Open VFX in the Visual Effect Graph package in the Package Manager.
    ([UUM-71169](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-missing-capitalisation-in-package-manager-window-button))

- VFX Graph: Fixed invalid cast exception when clicking on template window headers
    ([UUM-92158](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidcastexception-is-thrown-after-clicking-on-a-group-header-in-create-new-vfx-asset-window))

- VFX Graph: Fixed occasional crashes when modifying exposed properties when in paused play mode.
    ([UUM-91916](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-storedgraphicsbuffer-getgfxbufferid-when-vfx-graph-property-is-modified-during-play-mode-and-application-dot-targetframerate-is-used-to-limit-fps))

- VFX Graph: Fixed undoing slider value change would not be reflected in the float field next to it
    ([UUM-92186](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undoing-slider-field-change-only-resets-slider-position-doesnt-undo-the-value-change))

- VFX Graph: Fixed unexpected compilation warning.
    (UUM-92778)

- VFX Graph: Fixed unexpected visible particle if set alive is force to true in SG Opaque Output.
    (UUM-96266)

- VFX Graph: Fixed VFX command culling when using Custom Passes in HDRP.
    ([UUM-83094](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frustumculling-is-not-functional-in-vfx-graph-rendered-with-custom-pass-when-using-aggregatecullingparameters))

- VFX Graph: Fixed VFX Graph template window was empty when the Terrain Tool package is installed
    ([UUM-95871](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-template-window-is-empty-because-of-an-exception))

- VFX Graph: This PR fix resolves minor issues related to VFX graph content sample package.
    ([UUM-92137](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/floating-point-division-by-zero-at-kernel-warnings-are-thrown-when-opening-vfx-learning-sample-scenes))

- VFX Graph: This PR fix resolves minor issues related to VFX graph content sample package.
    ([UUM-92253](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/staticlightingsky-is-missing-an-attached-script-in-the-urp-vfx-learning-template-scene))

- VFX Graph: This PR fix resolves minor issues related to VFX graph content sample package.
    ([UUM-92641](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/output-decals-urp-link-in-learning-templates-directs-to-hdrp-lit-decal-documentation))

- Video: "AVFoundationVideoMedia error while reading" error is thrown when streaming from a URL with a signed token in VideoPlayer
    ([UUM-86076](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/avfoundationvideomedia-error-while-reading-error-is-thrown-when-streaming-from-a-url-with-a-signed-token-in-videoplayer))

- Video: Fixed an issue on output of stale frames by the Video Player after a seek.
    ([UUM-58173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-videoplayer-dot-time-and-pausing-results-in-incorrect-player-dot-frame-values))

- Video: Fixed corruption of alpha values when converting YUVA to RGBA with line widths that aren't a multiple of 8.
    ([UUM-86958](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/black-artifacts-appear-when-playing-a-certain-transcoded-video-using-videoplayer))

- VisionOS: Fixed an issue where display resolution information wasn't available for the visionOS platform.
    (UUM-64244)

- VisionOS: Fixed issue where UNITY_USES_IADS was incorrectly being enabled for some builds.
    (UUM-96401)

- VisionOS: Fixed `Run As` behavior to honor the requested build setting from Unity in Xcode.
    (UUM-75465)

- Web: Fix "Deep Profiling" support on Web Platform.
    (UUM-93285)

- WebGL: Fix bug causing PlayDelayed\(\) to play audio immediately in WebGL builds, regardless of the delay specified.
    ([UUM-77285](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audiosource-dot-playdelayed-playing-sound-without-delay-when-in-webgl-build))

- WebGL: Fixed regressed behavior of the Target WebAssembly 2023, Enable Native C/C++ Multithreading, Memory Growth Mode, Enable Exceptions, and Maximum Memory Size player settings for the Web platform and Web derived platforms build profiles.
    (UUM-90159)

- Windows: Changed underlying API used to retrieve touch and mouse pointer state which resolves issues where Touchscreen interaction would be sending Mouse events.
    (UUM-92144)

- Windows: Fixed Windows player crashing when embedded into an executable that does not export the D3D12SDKPath symbol.
    ([UUM-96170](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-player-with-a-custom-exe-file-crashes-in-fixupd3d12sdkpath))

- Windows: On Windows, fixed a few related bugs where if the Unity project/player settings were set to the Quad speaker mode, we would still output sound to the front center channel on a 5.1 or 7.1 system. Similarly, if Unity is set to use the surround \(5.0\) speaker mode, we would still output sound to the LFE channel on a 5.1 or 7.1 system. This has now been fixed.
    ([UUM-52906](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-uses-a-centre-speaker-when-defaultspeakermode-is-set-to-quad))

- XR: Fixed a long-standing bug where predicted frame times were incorrect for OpenXR.

- XR: Fixed foveated rendering with D3D12 render passes.
    (UUM-85398)

- XR: Fixed incorrect Y-flip affecting certain Quest devices when using Shared Depth Buffer or depth submission modes.
    ([UUM-85895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quest-depth-buffer-is-inverted-when-using-shared-depth-buffer-or-depth-submission-mode-with-oculus-xr-or-openxr))

- XR: Updated XR Legacy Input Helpers \(com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers\) to version 2.1.12.




#### Preview of Final 6000.2.0a4 Package changes

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.sentis: [2.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.sentis@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.1.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.sentis@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.2d.aseprite: [1.2.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.aseprite@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.2.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.aseprite@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.inputsystem: [1.11.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.11//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.13.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.test-framework: [1.4.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.test-framework@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.test-framework@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers: [2.1.11](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.1.12](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.legacyinputhelpers@2.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.oculus: [4.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@4.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.5.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.oculus@4.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.learn.iet-framework: [4.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework@4.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.learn.iet-framework.authoring: [1.2.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework.authoring@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework.authoring@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.multiplayer.playmode: [1.3.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.multiplayer.playmode@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.multiplayer.playmode@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.dedicated-server: [1.3.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.dedicated-server@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.dedicated-server@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.memoryprofiler: [1.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.memoryprofiler@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.memoryprofiler@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.netcode.gameobjects: [1.12.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode.gameobjects@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.12.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode.gameobjects@1.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.ai.navigation: [2.0.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ai.navigation@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ai.navigation@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.tooling: [1.2.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.tooling@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.tooling@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.project-auditor: [1.0.0-pre.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.project-auditor@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.project-auditor@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)