### Known Issues in 6000.4.0a2

- Android: Reduce memory overhead for Vulkan command buffers when using graphics jobs
    (UUM-121520)    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a4.*

- Animation: Fixed issues where normalized time would not be incrementing on some animator states, along with excessive errors being logged.
    ([UUM-121440](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-is-still-spamming-too-much-when-states-stay-active-too-long))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a3.*

- Animation: Fixed memory leak caused by accumulating event handlers in IMGUI inspectors when changing GameObject selection
    ([UUM-121239](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspectorelement-and-animationmode-memory-leak-when-selecting-different-gameobjects-in-the-hierarchy-with-the-inspector-tab-open))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a3.*

- DirectX12: Increased Memory usage when Update Mode 'On Demand' Realtime lights are used and DX12 API is selected
    ([UUM-90065](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/increased-memory-usage-when-update-mode-on-demand-realtime-lights-are-used-and-dx12-api-is-selected))

- Editor: Fixed corrupted kernings.
    ([UUM-121371](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/font-kerning-breaks-at-runtime-when-multiple-ui-documents-use-different-fonts))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a3.*

- Engine Diagnostics: Fixed user metadata not appearing for native crash reports on Diagnostics dashboard
    (UUM-121591)    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a3.*

- Graphics: Fixed occasional crash when changing shader in the inspector to the one with GrabPass
    ([UUM-121727](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mono-dump-native-crash-info-when-changing-a-particle-system-renderers-material-shader-to-standard-unlit))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a4.*

- Graphics: Fixed unreferenced assets not being destroyed when switching scenes or calling Resources.UnloadUnusedAssets when using GPU Resident Drawer.
    ([UUM-120539](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-usage-rises-when-switching-scenes-with-grd-enabled-and-a-loaded-texture-in-urp))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a3.*

- Hub: Licensing Client fails to launch when opening Unity Hub
    ([UUM-103995](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/licensing-client-fails-to-launch-when-opening-unity-hub-1))

- Hub: Licensing Client fails to launch when opening Unity Hub (licensing client path is not found)
    ([UUM-103996](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/licensing-client-fails-to-launch-when-opening-unity-hub-licensing-client-path-is-not-found))

- IL2CPP: [macOS][iOS][IL2CPP] Crash when using the nullable enum as a parameter and passing a default value into it.
    ([UUM-116854](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-ios-il2cpp-crash-when-using-the-nullable-enum-as-a-parameter-and-passing-a-default-value-into-it))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where async component destruction would corrupt the physx vehicle integration, effectively breaking filtering data for wheels
    ([UUM-117450](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wheel-collider-does-not-interact-with-other-colliders-when-the-gameobject-is-destroyed-and-instantiated))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a3.*

- Profiler: Fixed crash that could occur on scene change while profiling.
    (UUM-120016)    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a3.*

- Profiler: Fixed crash when resizing game window in play mode with Profiler active.
    ([UUM-120153](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-purecall-when-maximizing-the-game-view-window-in-play-mode-with-the-profiler-window-docked-next-to-it))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a3.*

- Shader System: Crash on tlsf_free when selecting a cube in the "Getting Started With Unity" template
    ([UUM-107673](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tlsf-free-when-adding-a-3d-object-to-a-scene-of-a-new-universal-3d-project))

- Text (TextMeshPro): Editor Freezes when instantiating TMP text formatted with rich text tags in non Latin languages 
    ([UUM-122214](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freezes-when-instantiating-tmp-text-formatted-with-rich-text-tags-in-non-latin-languages))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed not calling an extra repaint before contextual menu when not necessary, which could sometimes result in duplicated contextual menu display.
    ([UUM-121704](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-choosing-rename-or-duplicate-in-the-blackboards-context-menu-the-context-menu-is-opened-a-second-time))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.4.0a3.*



### Preview of Final 6000.4.0a2 Release Notes

#### Features

- 2D: D2D-7595<br>
    Runtime SpriteAtlas is to optimize game performance by dynamically creating and managing sprite atlases at runtime.

- Adaptive Performance: Added support for the following platforms to the Adaptive Performance basic provider: PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X\|S.

- Editor: Added a slider to the Mesh Renderer and Skinned Mesh Renderer components that lets you visualize and scrub through different Mesh levels of detail \(LOD\) in the Inspector.

- Editor: Added an ''LOD label' toggle to the Scene view Gizmo menu to control the visibility of all Level of Detail \(LOD\) labels for Mesh LOD.

- Editor: Added an option in Animator State Machines to evaluate transitions on start. When enabled, the Animator will evaluate entry transitions before initializing the default state. If one of the transitions is valid, the Animator will be initialized in that state. If this option is disabled, or if no transition is valid upon initialization, the Animator will start in the default state. This option will default to true for newly created AnimatorControllers \(and AnimatorStateMachines\), and default to false for existing assets to avoid unexpected changes in behaviour.

- Editor: Added support for dragging and dropping materials onto a Terrain GameObject in the Editor.

- Editor: Added support for dragging and dropping Terrain Layers onto a Terrain GameObject in the Editor.

- Editor: Improved the visuals and branding in the Platform Browser for partners who have approved the use of their logos.

- Editor: The Project Auditor package is now provided as an Editor module, and is no longer distributed as a package.

- Editor: Updated the Platform Browser window to group platforms by category.

- Graphics: Rebuilt the Graphics Stats Window in UI Toolkit to use an updated stats collection API.

- HDRP: Render Pipeline Converter - Allow upgrading shader materials in HDRP.

- Package Manager: Added a `dryRun` option to the `PackageManager.Client.AddAndRemove` function, allowing it to run without making any changes to the project.

- Package Manager: Added messages in the Package Manager window to improve visibility of package signature validation.

- UI Elements: Added the ability to create a UI Document from the Hierarchy context menu with a prefilled Visual Tree Asset, which is automatically created, saved in the Assets folder, and assigned to the UI Document.

- UI Toolkit: Added read-only support to the ToggleButtonGroup, TabView, and Tabs controls in the Editor.

- UI Toolkit: Added support for dragging and dropping UXML or USS files from the Project window or File Explorer/Finder into the UI Builder.

- URP: Added On Tile Post Processing rendering features in the Universal Render Pipeline \(URP\) for untethered XR platforms.

- Web: Added support for Burst on Web Platform\(requires updated Burst package\).<br>
    Enable multithreading support for burst-compiled jobs.

- Web: Added support for `Microphone` scripting APIs on the web platform.



#### Improvements

- 2D: Improved performance when setting Tiles on a Tilemap.

- Android: Unity will produce gradle build log under &lt;project&gt;\\Library\\Bee\\Android\\Prj\\IL2CPP\\Gradle\\launcher\\build\\outputs\\logs\\unity-&lt;taskname&gt;-build.log, when producing apk or aab.

- Documentation: Added more details on the GPU occlusion culling algorithm.

- Documentation: Added section on GPU Resident Drawer in the Rendering Debugger manual.

- Documentation: Improved documentation for `Screen.safeArea`.

- Documentation: Improved existing API documentation and samples for Scriptable Audio Processors, fixed broken links.

- Documentation: Improved URP GPU Resident Drawer documentation with more details on performance and unsupported features.

- Editor: Added an option to create HLSL files directly within the Editor.

- Editor: Added the "Use prefab asset position when dropping on the Hierarchy window" preference to allow prefabs to be placed at the position saved in the assets root transform when they're placed in the scene via the Hierarchy window.
    ([UUM-104560](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefabs-are-instantiated-in-the-wrong-position-when-dragging-and-dropping-from-project-window-to-hierarchy))

- Editor: Improved handling when replacing a `Transform` with a `RectTransform` if the `Transform` belonged to a `TransformAccessArray`.

- Editor: Improved the lag when dragging the Editor's launch screen on Windows.
    (UUM-103498)

- Editor: Moved menu item for D3D12 Device Filter to "Rendering -&gt; Device Filters -&gt; D3D12 Device Filter"
    (UXQA-936)

- Editor: Moved menu item for Vulkan Device Filter to "Rendering -&gt; Device Filters -&gt; Vulkan Device Filter"
    (UXQA-936)

- GI: Changed the behavior of light probe loading. When you unload the last scene that contains light probes, you no longer need to call `LightProbes.Tetrahedralize()` to apply the changes.
    ([UUM-116318](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/baked-gi-loaded-by-loadscene-call-with-additive-mode-is-not-cleaned-up-when-unloading-the-scene))

- GI: Improve documentation for IProbeIntegrator API used for implementing custom GI baking of light probes.

- GI: Improved to documentation of the probe integrator and probe post processing APIs.

- Graphics: Handle case where vulkan pipeline cache file could be corrupted and cause vkCreatePipelineCache to fail

- HDRP: Improved the integration of the new render graph system into HDRP by allowing more render graph passes to be culled.

- macOS: Avoid a strlen when building a CFString, if the string length is known.

- Package Manager: Improved the design of the Package Manager window to ensure greater consistency with the Editor interface.

- Plugins: Upgrade DLSS SDK from v310.3.0 to v310.4.0<br>
    NVIDIA DLSS Release notes<br>
    - Bug Fixes &amp; Stability Improvements

- Scene/Game View: Improved the icon quality of the Edit Collider tool.
    ([UUM-115187](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-probe-group-edit-tool-icon-is-pixelated-slash-low-quality))

- Shadergraph: Added terrain shader templates to the Shader Graph Template Browser.

- Shadergraph: Improved blackboard scrolling behavior when adding a new item out of the current scroll view.
    ([UUM-103879](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blackboard-scrolls-horizontally-to-the-right-side-when-new-properties-are-added))

- SRP Core: Improved samples to include one with a compute shader pass with rendergraph.

- SRP Core: Tag Render Graph memorlyless resources only when supported by platform API

- Terrain: - Added an improvement to the ShaderGraph Terrain feature with the addition of a Terrain node that exposes commonly used information stored on each Terrain and TerrainData asset. This is to alleviate some issues users might encounter when authoring their own Terrain ShaderGraphs relating to transitions between non-basemap and basemap LODs of the rendered Terrain, max local height, and number of terrain layers. Previously, this setup would have required custom scripts to bind shader property values to each Terrain material before rendering as well as custom shaders

- Test Framework: Implemented debounced search in the Test Runner window to improve search performance for projects with many tests.
    ([UUM-119308](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/test-runner-window-search-is-slow-in-projects-with-a-lot-of-tests))

- UI Toolkit: Added a button in the UI Document *Inspector* window to edit or open the assigned `VisualTreeAsset`.

- UI Toolkit: Added a context menu option to open the UI Builder directly from the Hierarchy window.

- UI Toolkit: Improved StyleSheet resource support so sub-assets can be referenced using a hash. For example:<br>
    property: resource\(path\#sub-asset-name\)
    ([UUM-112869](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-cant-set-a-background-image-to-a-sprite-from-a-multi-sprite-spritesheet-in-the-resources-folder))

- UI Toolkit: The display for the specificity score in UI Debugger has been changed to `id-class-type` format to align with common web standards, making it more intuitive and easier to understand.

- Universal RP: Removed the final post-processing pass when using Spatial-Temporal Post-processing \(STP\) to improve GPU and CPU performance.

- Universal RP: Split monolithic post-processing logic into reusable modular post-process pass classes.

- URP: Added some small user experience \(UX\) improvements to the Render Pipeline Converter.
    (UUM-115317)

- URP: In the Render Pipeline Converter, Readonly Material converter now changes references to material inside custom materials.
    ([UUM-114971](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/render-pipeline-converter-readonly-material-converter-does-not-change-custom-components-references))

- URP: Updated render graph samples to newer APIs.



#### API Changes

- 2D: Added: Added support for 2D specific Injection Points for 2D Renderer.

- Animation: Added: Added an accessor for the Root Motion Bone Name in HumanDescription to make it easier to script interactions with the ModelImporter.

- Asset Import: Deprecated: UnityEditor.ModelImporterMaterialLocation.External is obsolete. External Material Location will no longer be supported in future versions.

- Asset Import: Deprecated: `SpeedTreeImporter.MaterialLocation.External` is obsolete. External Material Location will no longer be supported in future versions.

- Audio: Added: ProcessorInstance, GeneratorInstance and RootOutputInstance implement IEquatable.

- Audio: Changed: Rename `Audio.IAudioGenerator.createRuntime` to `Audio.IAudioGenerator.createInstance`.

- Audio: Changed: Updated multiple API entry points for the new audio scriptable processors feature.

- Core: Added: Added EntityId.GetRawData for getting the underlying data of an entityid.

- Editor: Added: Added `ApplyRevertButtonContainer`.

- Editor: Added: Used Category and Element attributes for defining location of Converters.

- Editor: Obsoleted: Event argument classes `ChangeAssetObjectPropertiesEventArgs`, `ChangeChildrenOrderEventArgs`, `ChangeGameObjectOrComponentPropertiesEventArgs`, `ChangeGameObjectParentEventArgs`, `ChangeGameObjectStructureEventArgs`, `ChangeGameObjectStructureHierarchyEventArgs`, `ChangeRootOrderEventArgs`, `CreateAssetObjectEventArgs`, `CreateGameObjectHierarchyEventArgs`, `DestroyAssetObjectEventArgs`, `DestroyGameObjectHierarchyEventArgs`, and `UpdatePrefabInstancesEventArgs` constructors and properties with `int instanceId` parameters are now obsolete, use their `EntityId` equivalents instead, which are based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: Obsoleting a number of AssetDatabase API's when used as part of an import.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `AssetPreview.IsLoadingAssetPreview(int)` is now obsolete, use `AssetPreview.IsLoadingAssetPreview(EntityId)` instead, which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `AudioProfilerClipInfo.assetInstanceId` and `AudioProfilerGroupInfo.assetInstanceId` are now obsolete, use `assetEntityId` instead, which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `EditorApplication.hierarchyWindowItemOnGUI` and `EditorApplication.projectWindowItemInstanceOnGUI` delegates are now obsolete, use `EditorApplication.hierarchyWindowItemOnGUIEntityId` and `EditorApplication.projectWindowItemInstanceOnGUIEntityId` respectively, which are based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `EditorUtility.PingObject(int)` is now obsolete, use `EditorUtility.PingObject(EntityId)` instead, which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `HierarchyWindowItemCallback` and `ProjectWindowItemInstanceCallback` delegate types are now obsolete, use `HierarchyWindowItemCallbackEntityId` and `ProjectWindowItemInstanceEntityIdCallback` respectively, which are based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `ObjectSelectorSearchContext.allowedInstanceIds` is now obsolete, use `ObjectSelectorSearchContext.allowedEntityIds` instead, which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `ProjectWindowCallback.EndNameEditAction` is now obsolete, use `ProjectWindowCallback.NameEditAction` instead, which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `SceneHierarchy.IsFolder(int)` is now obsolete, use `SceneHierarchy.IsFolder(EntityId)` instead, which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `SceneHierarchy.StartNameEditingIfProjectWindowExists(int, EndNameEditAction, string, Texture2D, string)` and `StartNameEditingIfProjectWindowExists(int, EndNameEditAction, string, Texture2D, string, bool)` are now obsolete, use `StartNameEditingIfProjectWindowExists(EntityId, NameEditAction, string, Texture2D, string)` and `StartNameEditingIfProjectWindowExists(EntityId, NameEditAction, string, Texture2D, string, bool)` respectively, which are based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `SearchUtils.GetMainAssetInstanceID` is now obsolete, use `SearchUtils.GetMainAssetEntityId` instead, which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `SerializedProperty.objectReferenceInstanceIDValue` is now obsolete, use `SerializedProperty.objectReferenceEntityIdValue` instead, which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Removed: Removing intermediate texture mode option for URP asset.
    (UUM-117084)

- EmbeddedLinux: Added: Add position and resolution change GameWindow events to the Windowing API

- Graph Tool Foundation: Added: GraphToolkit is now a Module in the Unity Editor and no longer requires installing a package.

- Graphics: Removed: Removed deprecated methods from the `RayTracingAccelerationStructure` class.

- iOS: Added: Added iPhone 17 device generation enums and screen cutouts.

- Package: Deprecated: Deprecated the standalone lobby SDK.<br>
    Deprecated the standalone matchmaker SDK.<br>
    Deprecated the standalone multiplay SDK.<br>
    Deprecated the standalone relay SDK.

- Physics: Added: Unmarked Physics::RebuildBroadphaseRegions from being deprecated because the multi-box pruning broad phase was brought back.
    ([UUM-112553](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-dropping-when-using-automatic-box-prunning-or-sweep-and-prune-instead-of-multibox-pruning-broadphase))

- Physics 2D: Added: Added physics query overloads to Collider2D to return NativeArray&lt;RaycastHit2D&gt; with a specified allocator: Cast.

- Physics 2D: Added: Added physics query overloads to Physics2D to return NativeArray&lt;RaycastHit2D&gt; with a specified allocator: BoxCast, CapsuleCast, CircleCast, Linecast, Raycast and GetRayIntersection.

- Physics 2D: Added: Added physics query overloads to PhysicsScene2D to return NativeArray&lt;RaycastHit2D&gt; with a specified allocator: BoxCast, CapsuleCast, CircleCast, Linecast, Raycast and GetRayIntersection.

- Physics 2D: Added: Added physics query overloads to Rigidbody2D to return NativeArray&lt;RaycastHit2D&gt; with a specified allocator: Cast, and Raycast.

- Services: Deprecated: Cloud Diagnostics has been deprecated as of August 13th, 2025, and is no longer a supported package. We encourage you to migrate to the new diagnostics experience, which provides more robust reports and device information.

- SRP Core: Added: Added a new API `SystemInfo.supportsMemorylessRenderTextures` to check if memoryless render textures are supported on the current device.

- SRP Core: Added: Render Pipeline Converter - Exposing public API to declare converters.

- Test Framework: Added: Added `IPostbuildCleanupWithTestData` interface. This is the same as `IPostbuildCleanup` but provides a `TestData` object.

- Test Framework: Added: IPrebuildSetupWithTestData interface- same as IPrebuildSetup but provides a TestData object

- Test Framework: Added: PostbuildCleanupWithTestData attribute- same as PostbuildCleanup but provides a TestData object

- Test Framework: Added: PrebuildSetupWithTestData attribute- same as PrebuildSetup but provides a TestData object

- Test Framework: Added: TestData record- provides data about the current test run, including the test mode \(editmode, playmode, player\) the tests it will run, and the platform it will run on.

- Test Framework: Added: TestMode enum- a mirror of the existing enum with the addition of 'None' and 'Player' to distinguish them as Test Modes

- UI Toolkit: Removed: Removed all Events helper from the public API UI Toolkit Test Framework and now require internal access.

- URP: Added: RenderingUtils.ReAllocateHandleIfNeeded overload that takes TextureDesc.

- URP: Deprecated: Deprecate UniversalResources.AfterPostProcessColor. It was never used and has no purpose.

- XR: Added: Added GetSubmeshClassifications and associated bindings to allow provider classification of components of AR/MR meshes.

- XR: Deprecated: Deprecated the com.unity.xr.interactionsubsystems package.



#### Changes

- DX12: Modified the DirectX 12 \(DX12\) device filter to also filter out integrated GPUs.

- Editor: Added `Hide Classic Platforms` option to `Project Settings` &gt; `Editor` to hide classic platforms from the Build Profile list.

- Editor: Headers for developing Native Plugins have been moved in the macOS Editor from Unity.app/Contents/PluginAPI to Unity.app/Contents/Resources/PluginAPI.

- Editor: Improved the interaction between the EditorApplication play mode API and the PlayModeScenariosManager API to ensure more predictable behavior. Before a scenario runs, entering Play Mode via the EditorApplication API now resets the active scenario to default. While a scenario is active, attempts to alter the Play Mode state using the EditorApplication API are now prevented to avoid potential errors and undefined behavior.

- Editor: Using `SerializeReference` now also issues a warning if used on a class whose parent doesn't have the `[Serializable]` attribute.

- Graphics: The PVRTC compressor has been removed from the Editor. Projects that were using the PVRTC compressor will now use ETC2.

- macOS: Updated the minimum requirements for the macOS Player to macOS 12 \(Monterey\).

- Physics: Added minimum width and height constraints to the *Physics Debugger* window.
    ([UUM-114638](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physics-debugger-window-has-no-minimum-width-slash-height-set))

- UI Toolkit: Disabled support for `UxmlTraits` and `UxmlFactory`.

- UI Toolkit: Marked `UxmlTraits` attribute description classes as obsolete.

- UI Toolkit: Removed UxmlTraits and UxmlFactory support from UXML Schema Generation. Improved Schema Generation so it now generates the elements with the correct hierarchy and includes UxmlObject support.

- URP: Render Pipeline Converter - New categorization of converters.



#### Fixes

- 2D: Allow Tile Palette Edit Mode to persist when entering Play mode.
    ([UUM-117622](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-edit-mode-turns-off-in-play-mode))

- 2D: Fix Assertion error when validating packed region
    ([UUM-116057](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-error-dx-width-padding-dy-height-padding-when-using-pack-preview))

- 2D: Fix default name for Light2D on game object creation
    ([UUM-116587](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/default-name-of-manually-created-global-light-2d-gameobject-differs-from-the-one-included-in-the-initial-project-scene))

- 2D: Fix issue where the background color of the Tile Palette is different depending on whether a RenderPipeline asset is used or not
    ([UUM-114975](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-background-and-grid-appear-lighter-when-built-in-render-piepline-is-used))

- 2D: Fix Light Batching Debugger constantly refreshing list to 0
    ([UUM-116583](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lights-in-batch-keep-resetting-to-0-in-the-light-batching-debugger-when-a-new-gameobject-is-created-and-the-mouse-cursor-is-hovered-over-the-inspector-window))

- 2D: Fix Rendering Debug views for Rendergraph2D
    (UUM-116276)

- 2D: Fixed a memory regression in the `Light2D` shader.
    (UUM-119296)

- 2D: Fixed an issue where Sort As 2D was not working with Prefabs.
    (UUM-117676)

- 2D: Fixed Create New Tile Palette/Create New Target dropdown menu's vertical alignment when there are no selected options available.
    ([UUM-117545](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/create-new-tile-palette-dropdown-text-is-not-centered-and-text-is-cut-off))

- 2D: Fixed first Brush Pick item's width when newly added.
    ([UUM-117603](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adding-first-new-brush-pick-in-the-tile-palette-brush-pick-overlay-shows-distorted-pick-image))

- 2D: Fixed issue where the Cell Size field for the Tile Set Editor is not enabled when the Cell Sizing is set to Manual.
    (UUM-116272)

- 2D: Fixed Light2d issue on PowerVR.
    ([UUM-115475](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-powervr-2d-lights-are-constantly-duplicating-and-increasing-in-intensity-in-the-player))

- 2D: Fixed menu placement.

- 2D: Fixed Tile Palette Active Target being changed when saving the scene.
    ([UUM-119587](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemap-selection-resets-to-the-default-when-the-scene-is-saved))

- 2D: Fixed Tile Palette view changing when entering Play mode.
    ([UUM-117623](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-grid-is-moved-after-entering-play-mode))

- Adaptive Performance: Changed input manager of Adaptive Performance samples to support input manager package instead of built-in input manager.

- AI: A Navigation `Raycast()` was freezing the game when passing through very small NavMesh polygons created by NavMesh Obstacles that carve.
    ([UUM-110863](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freezes-after-some-time-when-using-navmeshquery-raycast))

- AI: Fixed issue when the NavMesh was getting built over disabled Terrain Colliders.
    ([UUM-117115](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmesh-surface-bakes-a-navmesh-when-the-terrain-collider-is-disabled))

- AI: Fixed navigation queries, including path calculations, now correctly identify valid locations on rugged sections of the NavMesh.
    ([UUM-65656](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmesh-dot-calculatepath-fails-when-the-height-of-the-agent-is-lower-than-1-dot-9))

- AI: Fixed some mesh colliders with unusual positions and orientations not being collected during a NavMesh build when using the default bounds.
    ([UUM-102676](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmeshsurface-ignores-convex-mesh-colliders-when-using-physics-colliders))

- Android: Fix and improve warning messaging on ExternalTools window when not recommended tools are used
    ([UUM-115122](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/you-are-not-using-the-recommended-android-ndk-versions-other-than-27-dot-2-12479018-are-not-officially-supported-dot-warning-is-still-displayed-when-android-sdk-is-set-to-the-correct-ndk-version-manually))

- Android: Fix crash of AndroidJNITests.TestProcess
    (UUM-113341)

- Android: Fix possibly missed events in UAAL scenario when calls were made right after instantiating the UnityPlayer
    (UUM-116775)

- Android: Fixed "The text is cut off and doesn't fit for the "Enable Armv9 Security Features for Arm64" property".<br>
    Changed "Enable Armv9 Security Features for Arm64 builds" to "Armv9 Security Features for Arm64".
    (UUM-103205)

- Android: Fixed Exception "Didn't find class "com.unity3d.player.ReflectionHelper" and application crash when setting AndroidJNIHelper.debug to true.
    ([UUM-111622](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gameactivity-exception-didnt-find-class-com-dot-unity3d-dot-player-dot-reflectionhelper-and-application-crash-when-setting))

- Android: Fixed GameActivity specific problem with touch coordinates translation when using custom screen resolution and rotating the screen.
    (UUM-115393)

- Android: Fixed incorrect Screen.safeArea/cutouts values on Android 11 or higher when Render Outside Safe Area is set to false.
    (UUM-119964)

- Android: Preserve full pointer high bits in allocator bookkeeping to prevent truncation on ARM64
    (UUM-78023)

- Android: Updated Android build tools dependency version in documentation.
    (UUM-121131)

- Android: Updated build-tools and platform-tools to 36.0.0.

- Android: When input field is hidden, text input no longer introduces previously deleted characters when using Vietnamese keyboard on certain devices.
    ([UUM-110122](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vietnamese-keyboard-inputs-duplicate-symbols-in-android-player-when-hide-mobile-input-is-turned-on-for-a-text-field))

- Android: \[Video\] Improved End-Of-Stream handling for unsupported video tracks on Android.
    (UUM-111761)

- Animation: Fixed an issue when clicking the Play button immediately after selecting a clip in Animation Window.The Space shortcut will now play the clip as expected rather than open the clip selection dropdown.
    ([UUM-113349](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pressing-animation-window-play-button-doesnt-unfocus-last-opened-dropdown-menu))

- Animation: Fixed an issue where the RuntimeAnimatorController type would not have an icon displayed when it was shown in search fields.
    ([UUM-120760](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-icon-is-used-for-the-runtime-animator-controller-type-in-a-search-window-when-assigning-an-animator-controller-in-the-animator-component))

- Animation: Fixed an issue where the view would be erratically jumping when dragging the AnimatorControllerView while Auto Live Link was active.
    ([UUM-120472](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-states-quickly-jump-during-the-blackboard-navigation-when-the-playing-state-is-moved-outside-the-view))

- Animation: Fixed an issue with animated UITK Property Fields in component inspectors failing to tint correctly when entering and exiting the animation preview mode from the Animation window.
    ([UUM-114283](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mesh-filter-animation-tint-is-not-added-if-keyframe-recording-is-not-enabled))

- Animation: Fixed corrupted animator window because of dangling animator controller serialized in the layout.
    (UUM-117808)

- Animation: Fixed crash when blending EntityIds in AnimationMixerPlayable.
    ([UUM-119717](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mecanim-valuearraycopy-when-triggering-a-specific-animation-transition))

- Animation: Fixed error being spammed when state has played for too long, error is now logged only once.
    (UUM-117041)

- Animation: Fixed issue where AnimatorController and AvatarMask assets would show a blank icon when imported as part of unitypackages
    ([UUM-114830](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/icons-arent-used-for-animation-assets-when-importing-them))

- Animation: Fixed issue where transitions with normalized duration and calls to Animator.CrossFade had incorrect duration if the animator speed was not 1 or -1.
    ([UUM-109060](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-dot-crossfade-normalizedduration-results-in-scaled-clip-advancement-when-animator-dot-speed-is-not-1-dot-0))

- Animation: Fixed overlapping int and pptr buffers in animation bindings.
    ([UUM-120157](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mecanim-animation-valuesfromclip-when-clicking-on-a-state-transition-arrow-in-the-animator-controller-with-the-2d-animation-package-installed))

- Animation: Fixed phantom curve not reverting back when property is added.
    ([UUM-117390](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/property-text-does-not-get-reverted-to-the-default-when-deleting-the-key-and-adding-it-back))

- Animation: Fixed right-click menu item "Make Transition" not doing anything if focus is not on the Animator Window.
    ([UUM-114257](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-create-a-new-transition-between-states-in-the-animator-when-a-transition-was-removed-in-the-inspector-window))

- Animation: Updated the AnimationWindow with the standard playhead icon.
    (UUM-114632)

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed a crash happening when deleting and recreating an asset and trying to us MoveAsset on it before any asset database refresh.
    ([UUM-114846](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-core-vector-assetreference-core-allocator-assetreference-0ul-vector-when-unchecking-the-custom-main-gradle-template-option-after-deleting-maintemplate-dot-gradle-file))

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed a crash that could occur when the correct asset importer for a given asset could not be found.
    ([UUM-117724](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetimportworker-crash-on-rtti-isderivedfrom-when-importing-specific-assets))

- Audio: Fixed crash due to missing handling of null 'name' argument in AudioMixer.GetFloat.
    ([UUM-109545](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-audiomixer-getfloat-when-entering-play-mode-in-a-specific-project))

- Audio: Fixed OnAudioFilterRead not working when enabling/disabling component.
    ([UUM-114268](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-low-pass-filter-isnt-working-when-enabled-after-entering-play-mode-or-in-player-via-script))

- Audio: \[Android\] Fixed an issue when audio ducking would occur after re-focusing the Unity application while recording with audio.
    ([UUM-115964](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-audio-volume-decreases-when-returning-to-the-app-during-screen-recording))

- Audio: \[Android\] Fixed an issue when audio would completely disappear after re-focusing the Unity application while recording without audio.

- Build Pipeline: \[Android\] Upgrade Gradle and Android Gradle Plugin versions to fix development build APKs being incorrectly flagged as malware.
    ([UUM-116588](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gameactivity-apk-built-with-development-build-enabled-gets-flagged-as-having-malware))

- Build System: Fix the file path of output files inside the BuildReport for AssetBundle builds.
    (UUM-116222)

- Build System: Project file includes changed to try and make them nicer to use.
    (UUM-111806)

- Build System: signing tools build is no longer red.
    (UUM-116308)

- Burst: Fixed a crash that could occur when scheduling jobs in a constructor due incorrect Burst shared statics.
    ([UUM-77850](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-extracthandles-when-reloading-domain-in-a-specific-project))

- Documentation: Fixed documentation about the D3D12 Device Filtering Asset.

- DX12: Added extra null checks in BufferD3D12.h
    ([UUM-115361](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dx12-fix-nullptr-access-in-some-functions-of-bufferd3d12-dot-h))

- DX12: Fix native RenderPass validation errors in editor/player
    (UUM-112861)

- DX12: Fix picture on the device filtering asset.

- DX12: Fixed corruption that could occur in virtual texturing
    (UUM-113462)

- DX12: Fixed overflowing fields in the D3D12 Device Filter Asset Inspector view.
    (UUM-114737)

- DX12: Minor CPU time optimization by reducing descriptor copy calls and GetResourceAllocationInfo\(\).
    (UUM-117629)

- Editor: - Fixed the Quick Search's Inspector window so that it has spacing in the header's top margin \[UUM-112612\].

- Editor: About window: Replace Forums with Discussions.
    ([UUM-116355](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editors-help-menu-still-lists-an-old-slash-retired-website-unity-forum))

- Editor: Added a margin in Search statusbar to make the preference button more accessible.
    ([UUM-107436](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-preferences-button-in-search-generated-assets-window-is-difficult-to-press))

- Editor: Added an API to explicitly mark text as Dirty
    ([UUM-102663](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fontasset-scale-does-not-update-ui-toolkit-layout-when-set-through-code))

- Editor: Added clamping on the WorldSpace Pixel Per Unit field in the panelSettings inspector to prevent degenerated cases
    (UUM-110978)

- Editor: Added links to result pictures.

- Editor: Added margin tag to ATG.
    ([UUM-114883](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sample-showcase-styling-is-broken-for-vfx-learning-templates))

- Editor: Added missing shortcuts for rename in the new hierarchy window.
    (UUM-115818)

- Editor: Added Scene GUI filtering similar to LODGroup to hide labels in non-active scene views for Mesh LOD labels.
    (GFXMLSA-1415)

- Editor: Backport safer way of setting BuildOptions for AssetBundle builds in ContentBuildTests.

- Editor: Builtin resources should not be pinged.
    ([UUM-112343](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-browser-highlights-slash-leads-to-the-assets-folder-for-internal-assets-which-are-not-reachable-when-asset-is-clicked-in-the-object-picker))

- Editor: Check duplication for both customer and built-in tags in TagManager.
    ([UUM-99990](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-error-notification-is-displayed-when-creating-a-tag-with-an-already-existing-name))

- Editor: Check if GlobalGameManagers exist in files after player build - ContentBuildTests.

- Editor: Color Field - Enabling seeing the EyeDropper color when inspecting Mixed values.
    (UUM-110400)

- Editor: Color Field - Switching apps broke the color picker while doing the eye dropper. Esc applied the last hovered color
    (UUM-110399)

- Editor: Corrected calculates the maximum width of the "Analyze Import Process" button in the "Import Activity" window, the first time that the window is shown.
    ([UUM-116158](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/analyze-import-process-button-misaligned-in-import-activity-window))

- Editor: Create PlayerBuildTestSettings with safe way of setting BuildOptions in Content Build player tests.

- Editor: Disabled Exclude block in querybuilder of the hierarchywindow.
    (UUM-119254)

- Editor: Disabled GPUResidentDrawer on VisionOS platform and issue a log for it.
    (UUM-78318)

- Editor: Drastically Reduced Overlay.CreateContent calls while dragging an overlay.
    (STO-3644)

- Editor: Editor layouts on Windows can now restore windows closer to the screen edge.
    ([UUM-120271](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/detached-editor-tabs-leave-gaps-between-the-edges-of-the-screen-when-a-custom-layout-is-used))

- Editor: Ensure doublequote is not part of filename on mac.
    ([UUM-115740](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/save-search-query-has-failed-dot-warning-is-thrown-and-the-search-is-not-saved-when-saving-references-in-project-with-the-default-name))

- Editor: Ensure t:prefab works in new hierarchy.
    ([UUM-119643](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-filtering-search-results-for-prefabs-does-not-return-any-results))

- Editor: Ensure the searchQuery Tree has propre styling for its header and icon.
    ([UUM-115689](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/searches-section-has-doubled-line-and-pixelated-search-icon))

- Editor: Ensure we correctly hide the Cancel button when not needed
    ([UUM-114914](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-search-bar-has-an-area-on-the-right-side-that-does-not-enable-slash-initiate-typing-slash-editing-and-the-mouse-cursor-doesnt-change-to-the-type-cursor-when-hovered-and-pressed))

- Editor: Ensure we correctly hide the Cancel button when not needed
    ([UUM-114915](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-x-delete-button-in-the-search-bar-remains-visible-after-already-pressed-when-deleting-text-in-the-hierarchy-v2-search-bar))

- Editor: Ensure we do not use ADB in FindRef to avoid loading all assets
    ([UUM-117182](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-window-freezes-and-takes-a-long-time-to-open-when-using-find-references-in-project-context-menu-option))

- Editor: Find reference will find reference on self \(similar to Legacy hierarchy\)
    ([UUM-115057](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-find-references-in-scene-function-does-not-return-a-result-or-highlight-the-correct-object-in-scene-view))

- Editor: Fix border in hierarchy search field
    ([UUM-115001](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-search-bar-outline-does-not-cover-the-whole-search-bar-when-hovering-mouse-on-the-search-bar))

- Editor: Fix BRG/GRD Validation layer warning on Metal
    (UUM-115852)

- Editor: Fix default width of Tag column in hierarchy
    ([UUM-115022](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-default-tag-column-width-is-set-to-minimal))

- Editor: Fix hierarchy layer column, it now has the same behavior as the gameobject inspector header
    ([UUM-114505](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-making-changes-to-a-nested-game-object-does-not-give-an-option-to-apply-the-changes-to-the-child-objects))

- Editor: Fix serialization issues with the Customizable toolbar
    (STO-3654)

- Editor: Fix static column in new hierarchy, the column now has a behavior closer to the static checkbox in the GameObject inspector.
    ([UUM-114511](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-marking-objects-as-static-in-the-hierarchy-window-does-not-match-the-inspector-workflow))

- Editor: Fix the display of non-whole sizes in the UI toolkit debugger's box model
    ([UUM-77345](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-10-ui-toolkit-debugger-does-not-allow-1-s-5-s-and-9-s-to-be-inputted-as-layout-dimensions))

- Editor: Fix unicode truncation
    ([UUM-114912](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-overlays-menu-doesnt-display-long-preset-title-which-causes-to-show-empty-menu-item-in-the-menu))

- Editor: Fixed a bug that made float properties using a slider to always use a range of 0-1.
    (UUM-120015)

- Editor: Fixed a bug where the Cameras overlay would only open one Property Editor at a time, and if you changed the camera selection it would not open a new Property Editor.
    ([UUM-115167](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cameras-overlay-does-not-open-the-correct-camera-component-properties-window-when-a-different-cameras-component-properties-window-was-opened))

- Editor: Fixed a crash if IMGUI calls are made immediately after closing the hosting EditorWindow within OnGUI\(\).
    ([UUM-120051](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-idlist-getnext-when-selecting-an-item-in-a-specific-dropdown-list))

- Editor: Fixed a crash that occurred when entering long text in an IMGUI field. Text beyond the character limit is now truncated.
    ([UUM-120863](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-material-getshader-when-pasting-an-unusually-large-block-of-text-into-a-gameobjects-name-field))

- Editor: Fixed a unwanted/needed folder
    ([UUM-114923](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-learning-templates-contains-an-empty-folder-the-hdrp-vfx-learning-templates-scene))

- Editor: Fixed Acceleration Structure Build Flags checkbox not working in Renderer inspector when lightmap preview foldout is open.
    ([UUM-116585](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/option-for-acceleration-structure-build-flags-cannot-be-toggled-when-lightmaps-have-been-generated-for-a-mesh-renderer))

- Editor: Fixed an Editor crash happening when .shader files contain raygeneration, miss or callable shaders. These shader types are supported in .raytrace files only.

- Editor: Fixed an error "InvalidCastException: Specified cast is not valid." was logged and Lightmap Parameters cannot be changed in a Mesh Renderer Component.
    ([UUM-116354](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-invalidcastexception-specified-cast-is-not-valid-dot-is-logged-and-lightmap-parameters-cannot-be-changed-in-a-mesh-renderer-component))

- Editor: Fixed an error in the Console when docking Animator window.
    ([UUM-120176](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-assertion-failed-on-expression-logged-when-docking-or-undocking-the-animator-window))

- Editor: Fixed an issue when opening modal dialogs on macOS where tooltips could still be shown in the background window and only rendered as a black box.
    (UUM-115505)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where all game objects would appear bold in the scene hierarchy when a default parent was set.
    ([UUM-115245](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-a-default-parent-in-scene-marks-all-hierarchy-objects-in-bold))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where depth priming was disabled for reflection probes.
    ([UUM-99152](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/depth-priming-is-ignored-when-rendering-a-reflection-probe-in-urp))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where popup menus with submenus could be placed incorrectly on macOS when deep submenu items were selected.
    ([UUM-116574](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-rendering-debugger-volumes-component-dropdown-is-opened-with-a-big-offset-when-component-field-is-set-to-any-sample-scene))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where text appeared misaligned when using bitmap fonts.
    ([UUM-116343](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/about-unity-window-has-misaligned-letters-when-the-display-scale-is-set-to-150-percent))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the QualitySettings drop down is not refreshed when we delete the currently active quality level.
    ([UUM-119857](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/customizable-toolbar-quality-level-shows-a-deleted-quality-level-as-in-use-when-the-quality-level-is-deleted-in-project-settings))

- Editor: Fixed artifacts when using a Google Pixel device under Android 14-15, the Video Player, and when changing the resolution dynamically.
    ([UUM-108144](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/display-issues-in-videoplayer-when-using-screen-dot-setresolution-on-certain-google-pixel-devices))

- Editor: Fixed ATG fontSize to match TextCore
    (UUM-114780)

- Editor: Fixed Bind Texture script link in Water sample Cave scene.
    ([UUM-104561](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-script-error-when-clicking-script-link-in-cave-scenes-water-sample-description))

- Editor: Fixed caret height for IMGUI.
    ([UUM-116306](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/caret-in-add-default-preset-text-field-is-vertically-misaligned-in-preset-manager))

- Editor: Fixed Console Error when Adding a Scripting Define that is empty.
    (UUM-84855)

- Editor: Fixed corruption issue when opening the about box a second time after moving the main window to another monitor.
    ([UUM-92333](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/windows-about-unity-window-needs-to-be-opened-twice-to-adapt-to-resolution))

- Editor: Fixed crash on navigating empty string in ATG
    ([UUM-115464](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-crash-on-textselectionservice-getfirstcharacterindexonline-when-using-cmd-slash-win-plus-delete-in-the-search-field))

- Editor: Fixed crash sometimes happening when dragging multiple asset objects from the project window onto the scene hierarchy window.
    ([UUM-114580](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-draganddropforwarding-dispatchdraganddropmultiple-when-performing-various-drag-and-drop-operations-in-the-editor))

- Editor: Fixed crash when an already opened project is opened by a second instance of the editor in batchmode.
    ([UUM-114810](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-zwwaitformultipleobjects-when-opening-the-same-project-more-than-once))

- Editor: Fixed crash when closing the editor while having the Prefab stage open.
    ([UUM-119491](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mono-jit-runtime-invoke-with-fatal-error-when-closing-editor-without-saving-changes-in-prefab-editing-mode))

- Editor: Fixed crash when trying to find certain attributes in the users C\# code
    ([UUM-115148](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mono-custom-attrs-has-attr-when-opening-a-specific-project))

- Editor: Fixed CreateInspectorGUI being called twice when Inspector was hidden for custom editors
    ([UUM-74710](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-dot-createinspectorgui-method-is-being-called-twice-when-the-console-and-the-inspector-windows-are-in-the-same-panel))

- Editor: Fixed Creating AnimationStateMachineBehaviour by making it return EntityId.
    ([UUM-115709](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexceptions-are-spammed-when-adding-a-script-to-a-state-machine-in-animator))

- Editor: Fixed cursorHeight for IMGUI.
    ([UUM-120180](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/console-window-messages-have-extra-spacing-at-the-bottom))

- Editor: Fixed EditorBuildSettings.scenes when using InitializeOnLoadMethod during startup.
    ([UUM-119437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/initializeonloadmethod-is-called-before-scenes-gets-loaded-after-project-upgrade))

- Editor: Fixed fatal error messages raised by import worker processes causing the main Editor process to terminate.<br>
    Fatal error messages from workers are reported by the main Editor process with a "\(fatal flag from worker ignored\)" suffix.
    ([UUM-115872](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-ondemandscheduler-handleimportworkerlogs-when-performing-various-unity-operations))

- Editor: Fixed FilterStyleField not updating parameter on list change.
    ([UUM-110447](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/filter-values-reset-if-filters-are-reordered))

- Editor: Fixed formatting of QueryListBlock which was cuasing an exception.
    ([UUM-119666](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-search-field-disappears-and-argumentexception-illegal-characters-in-path-error-thrown-when-filtering-search-results-for-sample-scene))

- Editor: Fixed GameView not being focused when switching directly into the View from another app.
    ([UUM-120691](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-doesnt-become-focused-when-clicking-on-the-game-view-in-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed inability to drag Tabs to a display right of primary in Windows Editor when using different DPI scales.
    ([UUM-116022](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/window-preview-appears-on-a-different-monitor-when-undocking-and-dragging-a-window-with-a-high-resolution-monitor-set-up-on-the-right-and-a-low-resolution-monitor-on-the-left))

- Editor: Fixed inconsistencies that are present in the text color in the EditorToolbarDropdownToggle.
    (UUM-113802)

- Editor: Fixed incorrectly computed transforms in UnifiedRayTracing
    ([UUM-117002](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-transform-computation-in-unifiedraytracing-api))

- Editor: Fixed invalid specular highlight appearing in terrain grass shader.
    ([UUM-113119](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-glare-from-the-light-placement-tool-is-visible-when-the-main-camera-is-set-to-perspective))

- Editor: Fixed issue where an incorrect error message was displayed when attempting to load an overlay preset that did not match target window type.
    ([UUM-115655](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unclear-error-pop-up-appears-when-loading-incorrect-preset-from-disk))

- Editor: Fixed issue where dependency shader changes were not properly detected in Terrain splat materials which resulting in the usage of Unity's error shader for rendering that geometry
    (UUM-117516)

- Editor: Fixed issue where dragging the Editor launcher screen around on Windows would result in choppy/laggy movement.
    (UUM-117336)

- Editor: Fixed issue where pausing before entering play mode does not keep Multiplayer virtual players paused.
    (UUM-121079)

- Editor: Fixed issue where scene default parent was not persisted when entering/exiting play mode.
    ([UUM-119536](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/default-parent-gets-removed-when-entering-play-mode))

- Editor: Fixed issue where the Preset Manager label/title uses dark theme UI in Light Theme.
    ([UUM-116138](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preset-manager-label-slash-title-uses-dark-theme-ui-in-light-theme))

- Editor: Fixed issue with ModelImporter AnimationClip transform mask UI not being applied.
    (UUM-115035)

- Editor: Fixed jittering happening when resizing a reflection probe bounds through its gizmo.
    ([UUM-116161](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/reflection-probe-box-projection-bounds-flicker-slash-reset-position-every-frame-and-breaks-at-some-point-when-editing-at-certain-angles-in-the-scene-view))

- Editor: Fixed LensFlareData Editor causing an error.
    (UUM-115952)

- Editor: Fixed Main Unity Toolbar tooltip names in edit mode.
    ([UUM-115383](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/main-unity-toolbar-buttons-have-different-names-in-tooltips-in-toolbar-edit-mode))

- Editor: Fixed material inspector incorrectly displaying shader objects which are a part of an asset with a non-shader main object.
    (SHADERS-1227)

- Editor: Fixed missing reference script error in RSUV LookDev Scene.
    (UUM-120554)

- Editor: Fixed missing underline in primary font preventing text rendering.
    ([UUM-120878](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-button-text-is-not-rendered-when-the-button-has-fixed-height-with-specific-icon-font))

- Editor: Fixed negative text measure with ATG
    ([UUM-115164](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-operator-slots-label-are-truncated))

- Editor: Fixed noisy text in UI Toolkit when using a custom shader with an arbitrary camera perspective.
    ([UUM-117227](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sdf-text-shows-artifacts-when-seen-with-a-perspective-transform-world-space))

- Editor: Fixed null exception on threads with TextCore.
    (UUM-117136)

- Editor: Fixed occasional validation warning in editor about "texture not bound" in preview.
    ([UUM-119802](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/metal-fragment-shader-missing-texture-binding-at-index-0-maintex-slash-hidden-slash-preview-alpha-warnings-are-thrown-when-selecting-some-textmesh-pro-font-assets))

- Editor: Fixed out of range issue when deleting with RTL text
    ([UUM-116909](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-error-is-thrown-when-trying-to-delete-letters-from-an-rtl-textfield-when-using-the-advanced-text-generator))

- Editor: Fixed play mode framework button disappearing during layout changes.
    (UUM-114335)

- Editor: Fixed search field wrapping issue.
    ([UUM-117474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-search-bar-gets-deformed-when-resized-horizontally))

- Editor: Fixed SearchField Add button hovering issues.
    ([UUM-117414](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-search-lens-button-highlight-is-dark-on-light-theme-and-barely-visible-on-dark-theme-when-hovering-mouse-cursor-over-it))

- Editor: Fixed sky contribution missing in fog when sky occlusion is enabled.
    ([UUM-119276](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/volumetric-fog-is-not-rendered-around-gameobjects-that-are-baked-with-apv-when-sky-occlusion-is-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed some Typos in the documentation
    ([UUM-114891](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/typos-in-vfx-learning-samples-spawn-context-and-orient-showcase-pages))

- Editor: Fixed styling of Scenes in the new Hierarchy window.
    (UUM-114536)

- Editor: Fixed the MainToolbar being incorrectly present in the Window&gt;Layout.
    ([UUM-115919](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unityeditor-dot-maintoolbarwindow-shows-up-in-panels-and-does-nothing-when-clicked))

- Editor: Fixed the ReoderableList so it sets the GUI.changed value when accepting a drag/drop onto its header in the Editor.
    ([UUM-116026](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gui-dot-changed-is-not-set-when-dragging-objects-onto-the-header-of-a-reorderable-list))

- Editor: Fixed thread issue with bitmap ATG.
    (UUM-120394)

- Editor: Fixed unselectable None option of the camera dropdowns in Rendering Debugger.
    ([UUM-116671](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendering-debugger-volumes-camera-dropdown-has-none-option-that-cant-be-selected))

- Editor: Fixed Unwrapping.GenerateSecondaryUVSet when used with Mesh have baseVertex tweaked
    ([UUM-109482](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unwrapping-dot-generatesecondaryuvset-does-not-work-with-submeshes-when-they-have-offsets-on-basevertex))

- Editor: Fixed USS variable token parsing
    ([UUM-77291](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-ui-system-ignores-both-values-when-the-default-value-is-specified-in-the-var-function-if-the-variable-is-resolvable))

- Editor: Fixed whitespaces behavior when used in Normal and Wrap mode for ATG.
    (UUM-114694)

- Editor: Fixed whitespaces behavior when used in Normal and Wrap mode for ATG.
    ([UUM-114840](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/atg-doesnt-wrap-the-text-in-the-label-when-the-text-starts-with-spaces))

- Editor: Fixed wrong warning about best-fit usage in uss.
    (UUM-119250)

- Editor: Fixes an Issue where QualityDropdown doesnt Update after rename
    (UUM-114769)

- Editor: Fixes an issue where Source would reset automatically
    ([UUM-115691](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendergraphviewer-metaquest3-source-is-refreshed-when-the-device-is-put-to-sleep-even-though-the-refresh-is-set-to-pause))

- Editor: Fixes Eyedropper tool moving the focused window in certain cases
    ([UUM-115403](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-window-moves-when-using-color-picker-pipette-inside-the-viewport))

- Editor: Fixes invalid TickTimer\(\) call within GTK wait loop occurring in very specific scenarios
    ([UUM-114635](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-focuscontroller-warnings-are-thrown-after-opening-texture-selector-window))

- Editor: Fixes MacEditor crash during shutdown if ModalProgressBar is displayed
    ([UUM-114938](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-closing-the-editor-with-unsaved-vfx-graph-changes))

- Editor: Fixes ordering and alpha of window tabs dragged within the DockArea on MacEditor
    ([UUM-115372](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tab-header-text-disappears-when-reordering-the-tabs-in-the-same-tab-group))

- Editor: HDRP random crash fix when changing quality settings.
    (UUM-96844)

- Editor: Hierarchy: fix exception that can happen when refreshing the view
    ([UUM-117331](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidoperationexception-error-is-thrown-when-entering-the-play-mode-with-anything-entered-in-the-hierarchy-v2-search))

- Editor: Improved Search GroupedList performance.

- Editor: In projects with scriptable render passes, console errors regarding transient attachments would be thrown in the editor when switching between build profiles. This has been fixed.
    ([UUM-97475](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gbuffer-slash-render-deferred-lighting-and-render-pass-related-errors-constantly-thrown-after-switching-a-build-profile))

- Editor: Modal windows opening a save/load panel on macOS will now remain modal after panel is dismissed.
    (UUM-119378)

- Editor: New EntityId not displaying on the Inspector in Debug mode.

- Editor: Open Popups and Tooltips on the display the mouse is currently on for Windows Editor when monitor look-up fails.
    ([UUM-117239](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-window-popups-are-cropped-when-using-an-uhd-monitor-coupled-with-a-lower-resolution-monitor))

- Editor: Prevent Accelerator client code hanging on cancelled uploads
    ([UUM-113816](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-editor-hangs-on-a-fresh-import-when-using-cacheserverwaitforuploadcompletion-command-line-argument))

- Editor: Prevent saved search query to be renamed with empty or extremely long characters.
    ([UUM-112566](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renaming-saved-searches-allows-unlimited-characters-causing-search-window-to-become-unresponsive))

- Editor: Project Settings Window - Graphics Settings - More options menu for IRenderPipelineGraphicsSettings was not visible in light mode.
    ([UUM-112618](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-tab-reset-menu-button-is-invisible-in-light-mode))

- Editor: Properly free VT CB indices even if render thread resources failed to create
    (UUM-56395)

- Editor: Removal of comparison between Multi-Process and native AssetBundle build in test project

- Editor: Remove console log when copying search text from hierarchy.
    ([UUM-115330](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copy-to-clipboard-in-the-hierarchy-v2-creates-logs-in-the-console))

- Editor: Remove placeholder when not in QueryBuilder mode since we do not support Tab
    ([UUM-115172](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-find-scene-references-search-query-overlaps-with-the-search-bars-search-item-background-text-when-query-builder-is-disabled))

- Editor: Remove placeholder when not in QueryBuilder mode since we do not support Tab
    ([UUM-115179](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-when-query-builder-is-disabled-search-fields-background-text-suggests-using-tab-to-filter-results-but-it-does-nothing))

- Editor: Removed a useless line separator at the bottom of the gameObject sub menu of the scene hierarchy context menu.
    ([UUM-116304](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unused-separation-line-is-present-at-the-bottom-of-the-create-gameobject-sub-menu-when-right-clicking-scene-in-the-hierarchy))

- Editor: Removed the styling causing the misalignment with foldout headers in the prefab override comparison window.
    ([UUM-119442](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-source-and-override-content-bounds-are-misaligned))

- Editor: Removed the TestFrameworkRuntimeOptions and related error messages.
    (UUM-118067)

- Editor: Replaced the LensFlareSamples inputs to use the new Input System Package.<br>
    Created the Input System Action and changed the control script \(LensFlareSamplesInputactions.cs\).<br>
    Jira ticket: UUM-113862
    ([UUM-113862](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lens-flare-sample-scene-is-using-old-input-system-which-spams-invalidoperationexception-errors))

- Editor: Report Editor architecture information.

- Editor: Right click on a node in Hierarchy should trigger global selection.
    ([UUM-115067](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-hierarchy-v2-right-click-does-not-select-the-object))

- Editor: Search propositions dialog perf improvements.

- Editor: Show the Cancel button if set from the searchable window api.
    ([UUM-115175](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-x-button-to-clear-search-query-is-missing-after-using-the-find-references-in-scene-function))

- Editor: Show the Column cells for selected rows.
    ([UUM-114486](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-objects-do-not-display-their-column-data-after-changing-the-values-to-default))

- Editor: Show the Column cells for selected rows.
    ([UUM-114918](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-active-slash-static-toggle-buttons-disappear-when-pressed-a-few-times))

- Editor: The active checkboxes in the new hierarchy are disabled for visual elements to better indicate that they are read-only.
    ([UUM-114497](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/visual-elements-cannot-be-enabled-or-disabled-using-hierarchy-v2))

- Editor: The progress bar dialog on macOS will no longer disappear when dragged to a separate display space.
    ([UUM-111328](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/progress-bar-created-using-the-editorutility-dot-displayprogressbar-method-disappears-when-moved-to-a-different-screen))

- Editor: Updated macOS minimum supported OS to 13.0.
    (UUM-119987)

- Editor: Updated the documentation for `AudioFormat`. Renamed `AudioFormat.bufferSize` to `AudioFormat.bufferFrameCount`.
    (DCME-1377)

- Editor: Updated Unity Editor icon on mac for macOS 26 "Liquid Glass" design.
    ([UUM-120993](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mac-editor-unity-editor-icon-does-not-follow-macos-tahoe-guidelines))

- Editor: Updated wording of Engine Diagnostics related elements in the BuildProfile window.
    (UUM-110263)

- Editor: Updating the links to the more up-to-date documentation
    ([UUM-114895](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-learning-templates-contains-links-to-missing-manual-pages))

- Editor: Upgrading from a version prior to 6.3 causes Play mode scenarios to not appear in the dropdown and in the scenarios window. Note: Fix applies only to scenarios inside the default "Assets/Settings/PlayMode" folder. Scenarios in other folders require to be manually reimported in order to be shown properly.
    (UUM-114107)

- Editor: When metadata changes, we reindex the asset
    ([UUM-114621](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assets-are-not-reindexed-if-their-meta-file-changes))

- Editor: \[MacOS\] Fix BeginLayoutGroup error on Enter key holding if tag exists.
    ([UUM-114909](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/endlayoutgroup-beginlayoutgroup-must-be-called-first-dot-errors-are-thrown-when-creating-a-tag-with-identical-name-and-holding-the-enter-keyboard-button))

- EmbeddedLinux: Fix seg faults that happen with AsyncOperations when using Windowing API
    (UUM-116540)

- EmbeddedLinux: Fixed main thread name setting
    (UUM-116884)

- EmbeddedLinux: Fixes Windowing API positioning to use correct position relative to requested display
    (UUM-115690)

- Engine Diagnostics: Fixed a crash on UnityEngine::Insights::Metric::Metric caused by a race condition
    ([UUM-113363](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-unityengine-insights-metric-metric-when-refocusing-on-the-editor-after-it-has-been-idling-in-the-background))

- Engine Diagnostics: Fixed Segmentation fault occurring when using --reset-diagnostic-switches via CLI on Linux.
    (UUM-111566)

- Game Core: The main thread will now be correctly identified as MainThread in external debuggers and profilers.

- GI: Avoid very long file paths which caused "missing file errors" in new URP projects.
    ([UUM-114156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-asset-packages-slash-com-dot-unity-dot-render-pipelines-dot-universal-slash-dot-dot-dot-slash-surfacecachecore-slash-restircandidatetemporal-dot-urtshader-has-no-meta-file-but-its-in-an-immutable-folder-the-asset-will-be-ignored-dot-thrown-when-cre))

- GI: Corrected an ignore message
    (UUM-116669)

- GI: Doing a Repaint\(\) when we need to fetch a new texture
    ([UUM-116168](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-map-viewer-shows-loading-dot-dot-dot-text-instead-of-indicating-users-that-baked-texture-maps-are-missing))

- GI: Ensured that additions to the APV test project in U7 main are backported to U6 trunk

- GI: Ensured that icons suited for light/dark theme are used as appropriate for volumetric fog and decal projector
    ([UUM-116148](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/local-volumetric-fog-icon-in-the-inspector-window-is-hardly-visible-when-editor-theme-is-set-to-light))

- GI: Ensured that the APV "Unload These Scenes" button does not attempt to unload an unsaved scene.
    ([UUM-116738](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/loading-unloaded-unsaved-scene-throws-argumentexception-error-in-the-console))

- GI: Fix lightmap preview slider disappearing when scaling window.
    ([UUM-117242](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/slider-disappears-when-the-baked-lightmap-viewer-window-is-at-its-minimum-size))

- GI: Fixed a bug where baking a scene containing a static Skinned Mesh Renderer and Adaptive Probe Volumes would throw an exception.
    ([UUM-104711](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidcastexception-specified-cast-is-not-valid-is-thrown-when-generating-lighting-with-virtual-offset-enabled-in-apv-and-a-static-skinned-mesh-rendered-with-a-mesh-filter-component-is-in-the-scene))

- GI: Fixed a bug where scenes lit entirely by adaptive probe volumes would have shadowmask and subtractive related keywords stripped out, even if they were required. Affected projects must do a clean build for the fix to take effect.
    ([UUM-84218](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-baked-shadows-do-not-appear-in-the-player-when-distance-shadowmask-and-adoptive-probe-volume-are-used))

- GI: Fixed a bug where using a rotated 6-pass skybox shader would cause the lightmapper to produce NaN values.
    ([UUM-96043](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/non-finite-value-in-temp-slash-lightbakeroutput-slash-lightmaprequest0-slash-star-dot-r2d-dot-errors-are-thrown-when-baking-a-lightmap))

- GI: Fixed an issue where Adaptive Probe Volumes would produce lightmap atlases during baking, which is a waste of time.
    ([UUM-117098](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packing-lightmaps-with-the-xatlas-packing-method-hangs-the-editor-for-a-long-time-before-the-process-can-be-cancelled))

- GI: Fixed APV Virtual Offset baking on AMD.
    ([UUM-114563](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/look-rotation-viewing-vector-is-zero-messages-are-logged-in-the-console-when-baking-lighting-with-display-probes-setting-enabled-in-rendering-debugger-while-using-the-android-build-profile-on-amd-hardware))

- GI: Fixed issue where "Missing RayTracingRenderPipelineResources type" warning would be shown when updating specific projects to Unity 6.4.
    (UUM-113507)

- GI: Re-import cubemaps with specular convolution instead of re-baking reflection probes when switching platforms.
    ([UUM-111929](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/reflection-problem-custom-cubemap-loses-its-reference-when-hdr-is-enabled-and-the-platform-is-switched))

- GI: Silence Surface Cache shader compilation warnings when switching to the Web platform.
    ([UUM-115877](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-warning-in-screenresolvelookup-warnings-are-thrown-when-changing-platform-to-web))

- GI: Using a style which respects themes for text
    ([UUM-116137](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/text-in-baked-shadowmask-mode-is-difficult-to-read-in-baked-lightmap-viewer-when-editor-theme-is-set-to-light))

- GI: Using a wrapping style for text
    ([UUM-116119](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/informational-text-does-not-wrap-and-does-not-fit-when-the-viewer-window-is-opened-by-default))

- Graphics: Better compatibility for Skinned Mesh Renderer in "Optimize Game Objects" mode by supporting nested or multiple Animator components in the hierarchy.
    ([UUM-84657](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/skinned-mesh-renderer-with-multiple-animator-components-does-not-render-when-optimize-game-objects-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Ensures corresponding VkFramebuffer\(s\) are destroyed when an FDM VkImage is destroyed.
    (UUM-113806)

- Graphics: Fix a crash or a blank screen being drawn when MSAA resolve to back buffer is requested on platforms that don't have support for it. Add error message to explain the issue
    ([UUM-60474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-vulkan-msaa-gets-resolved-into-a-wrong-swap-chain-buffer-when-using-cameratarget-as-resolvetarget))

- Graphics: Fix Vulkan crash on Android while switching between scenes
    ([UUM-82923](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-on-atomicqueue-enqueue-atomicnode-star-plus-12-when-a-scene-transition-happens-in-the-player))

- Graphics: Fixed an error on certain platforms due to the incorrect type of Rendering Layer in the shader for terrain's depth-normal prepass.
    ([UUM-117463](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrainlitdepthnormalspass-is-using-uint4-instead-of-uint-for-outrenderinglayers))

- Graphics: Fixed cloud shadows popping when no shadows are rendered from directional light.
    ([UUM-107688](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadows-disappear-when-looking-at-a-certain-angle-in-scene-view-and-using-cloud-shadows-with-volumetric-clouds))

- Graphics: Fixed incorrect rendering of objects when using GPU Occlusion Culling on scenes containing mesh renderers using meshes with no triangles.
    ([UUM-115962](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graphical-issues-are-caused-by-gpu-occlusion-culling-when-using-amplify-shaders))

- Graphics: Fixed incorrect sorting order with combined Text Mesh Pro and MeshRenderer objects when using GPU Resident Drawer. Objects like these now bypass GPU Resident Drawer.
    ([UUM-115123](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/layer-render-order-is-not-respected-inside-the-android-player-when-using-gpu-resident-drawer))

- Graphics: Fixed IndexOutOfRangeException when inserting a new level of detail in LODGroup.
    ([UUM-114504](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lod-group-levels-partially-grey-out-and-an-indexoutofrangeexception-error-gets-thrown-in-the-console-when-inserting-a-new-lod-group-level))

- Graphics: Fixed issue when UpdateExternalTexture is called it will Unregister the previous texture to free the memory.
    ([UUM-105771](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-increases-indefinitely-when-playing-vlc-video-stream))

- Graphics: Fixed MeshFilter excessively logging SendMessage warnings when used in Prefab
    ([UUM-114459](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sendmessage-warning-is-thrown-when-selecting-a-prefab))

- Graphics: Fixed missing shader binding when PrecomputedAtmosphericAttenuation is set to zero in ShaderConfig.cs and ShaderConfig.cs.hlsl<br>
    This error was causing graphical issues such as broken ocean lighting, on top of error messages.
    ([UUM-117118](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-water-renders-black-when-the-precomputedatmosphericattenuation-is-set-to-zero))

- Graphics: Fixed occasional null pointer access crash during shutdown.
    (UUM-121178)

- Graphics: Fixed out-of-memory crash if the number of lens flares elements was really large.
    ([UUM-114894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fatal-error-pop-up-thrown-after-entering-large-value-in-numbers-list-for-lens-flare-in-inspector-window))

- Graphics: Fixed sporadic crash when using Cloth rendering with Vulkan.
    ([UUM-90932](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-on-gfxdevicevkbase-drawbuffersbatchmode-in-the-player-when-loading-slash-unloading-character-models))

- Graphics: Frame Debugger - Game View - Frame Debugger On label in dark mode was red.
    ([UUM-116974](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-on-text-color-not-maintained-across-different-editor-themes-in-toolbar))

- Graphics: Frame Debugger - Tool was not disabled when a maximized docket Game view was unmaximized.
    ([UUM-112096](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-debugger-docked-with-the-game-view-can-still-be-enabled-when-game-view-is-maximised-and-minimised))

- Graphics: Removed GPUResidentDrawerResources.asset which has been obsolete since 2023.3.0a14.
    ([UUM-120113](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-gpuresidentdrawerresources-script-file-is-missing-from-the-scriptable-render-pipeline-core-package))

- Graphics: Speculative fix for potential race conditions in CalculateSkinningMatrices by ensuring direct job completion for improved safety.
    ([UUM-111486](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-on-skinnedmeshrenderermanager-calculateskinningmatrices))

- Graphics: This PR contains the following API changes about Light:<br>
    - Rename properties HDAdditionalLightData.shapeRadius and Light.shadowRadius into Light.shapeRadius. The assets will be automatically migrated.<br>
    - Deprecate a property LightEditor.bakedShadowRadiusProp which was used only for the editor.<br>
    - Rename "Baked Shadow Radius" to "Shape Radius" on URP on the editor.<br>
    - Remove an unused property lightShadowRadius.

- Graphics: When the "Load texture data on demand" setting was enabled, sometimes textures would not be properly loaded in the editor and result in empty or missing texture errors in the console.
    ([UUM-114482](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/certain-textures-are-not-loaded-when-using-the-load-texture-data-on-demand-feature))

- GraphView: Added Pointer events to handle edge connection and manipulation. Enables touch input to be properly addressed.
    ([UUM-73221](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graph-nodes-cant-be-connected-using-touch-screen-controls))

- HDRP: Added missing documentation link to High Quality Line Renderer volume component.
    ([UUM-102165](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-graphics-high-quality-line-rendering-is-missing-a-documentation-link))

- HDRP: Color Checker - Color presets were drawn on top of each other when changing the Color Fields and Fields per Row
    ([UUM-115870](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/colorcheckerhdrp-color-presets-are-drawn-on-top-of-each-other-when-changing-the-color-fields-and-fields-per-row))

- HDRP: Fix exposure flickering in situations where the dynamic exposure changes quickly.
    (UUM-109528)

- HDRP: Fixed a "Volumetric Clouds Combine" pass breaks rendering \(Render Graph\) due to incorrect resource attachment.
    ([UUM-116156](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/volumetric-clouds-combine-pass-breaks-rendering-due-to-incorrect-resource-attachment))

- HDRP: Fixed a bug where an error was logged when using HDRP path tracer with PBR sky.
    ([UUM-97700](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/compute-shader-property-not-set-error-when-entering-play-mode-with-path-tracing-and-pbr-sky))

- HDRP: Fixed artifacts being visible as random bright tiles in HDRP deferred lighting after disabling path tracing.
    ([UUM-112725](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/raytracing-renders-artefacts-and-performance-drops-when-switching-volumes-at-runtime))

- HDRP: Fixed documentation link for Rendering Debugger &gt; Render Graph.
    ([UUM-103894](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/manual-reference-button-for-render-graph-section-in-rendering-debugger-opens-a-missing-manual-page))

- HDRP: Fixed the bug where HDRP water rendered always on top of high-quality-line-hair. Now you can use the LineRendering.CompositionMode = BeforeColorPyramidAfterClouds in the volume profile to fix this.
    ([UUM-110959](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hair-is-not-rendered-with-water-physics-when-overlapping-with-another-gameobject))

- IL2CPP: Fixed crash when extracting parameter info from a method with a nullable enum parameter with a default value.
    ([UUM-116854](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/macos-ios-il2cpp-crash-when-using-the-nullable-enum-as-a-parameter-and-passing-a-default-value-into-it))

- IL2CPP: Fixed issue where logs are sometimes scrambled in Android's logcat when using Console.WriteLine.
    (UUM-114863)

- IL2CPP: Improved Desktop Linux IL2CPP repository Handling.

- IL2CPP: Move Embedded Linux Build Logic back to IL2CPP repository.

- Input: \[Android\] Fixed touch input offset when Resolution Scaling Mode setting is set to Letterboxed.
    ([UUM-105504](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-touch-input-is-offset-downwards-when-the-resolution-scaling-mode-is-set-to-letterboxed))

- Input System: Fixed an issue that would prevent Unity editor or player to shutdown/quit if Input System polling frequency is very low.
    (UUM-115335)

- iOS: Do not reset input if requested orientation change is the same as previous \(no actual change\).
    (UUM-114722)

- iOS: Fixed a bug related to changing the default audio output device while recording from the built-in microphone. In that case, sometimes microphone data would stop being captured properly.
    ([UUM-98507](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-audiosource-errors-slash-warning-logged-and-audiosettings-dot-onaudioconfigurationchanged-event-not-called-when-disconnecting-the-bluetooth-heaphones-from-the-device))

- iOS: Fixed a crash with -nographics launch argument \(Simulator only\).
    (UUM-117757)

- iOS: Fixed iOS simulator build when symlinking is enabled.
    (UUM-120040)

- iOS: Fixed occasional crashes when using GPU batched skinning.
    (UUM-117690)

- macOS: Fixed macos player flickering when using MSAA
    (UUM-114831)

- Mono: Added `gc_lock` protection around `fork` calls on all macOS versions.
    (UUM-101541)

- Mono: Fixed Ref parameter address mismatch when invoking a default interface method with multiple ref arguments.
    ([UUM-115835](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ref-parameter-address-mismatch-when-invoking-a-default-interface-method-with-multiple-ref-arguments))

- Mono: Fixed the System.String.Replace throwing NotImplementedException.
    ([UUM-117367](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/notimplementedexception-is-thrown-when-using-system-dot-string-dot-replace-string-string-boolean-cultureinfo))

- Multiplayer: Fixed an issue that prevented additional editor instances from being started on Linux when using Multiplayer Play Mode.
    (UUM-120397)

- Multiplayer: Notify users of Drift when assets or code changes within the Main Editor starts diverging from free running instances.

- N/A \(internal\): Fixed a perf regression in macOS Editor play mode.
    (UUM-120043)

- Package Manager: Add dependency header in edit mode in the inspector.
    ([UUM-113343](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dependency-list-items-are-missing-field-labels-and-tooltips))

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where package folder name is not synchronized when package technical name change.
    ([UUM-113126](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-is-thrown-after-editing-package-manifests-name-or-organization-name))

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where the 'Packages with Errors' pop up not always showing up on project with warning or errors.
    (UUM-115594)

- Package Manager: Missing/invalid signature warnings/errors will now be logged only when adding/updating package instead on every resolve.

- Package Manager: there is no ellipsis or tooltip when long title in name label when multi selecting.
    ([UUM-113127](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-break-on-multi-select-with-long-package-title))

- Package Manager: Updated version validation message that contains unclear 'SemVer' abbreviation.
    ([UUM-116023](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/validation-message-in-package-creation-contains-unclear-semver-abbreviation))

- Particles: Fix memory leak related to ParticleSystem job fences.
    (UUM-113729)

- Particles: Particles are now filling UNITY_MATRIX_PREV_M with identity to be consistent with world matrix.
    (UUM-114886)

- Particles: Prevent crash when using nested sub-emitters with the Birth spawn condition.
    ([UUM-115382](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-player-crashes-on-unityplayer-unitymain-and-an-access-violation-reading-location-error-in-particlesystem-emit-occurs-when-running-player-with-debugallocator-and-using-particle-systems-with-a-complex-hierarchical-structure))

- Physics: Brought back multi-box pruning broad phase, due to automatic box pruning being insufficient for larger world use-cases
    ([UUM-112553](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/performance-dropping-when-using-automatic-box-prunning-or-sweep-and-prune-instead-of-multibox-pruning-broadphase))

- Physics: Fixed a crash inside Physics.IgnoreCollision where a user would pass a prefab asset \(not a prefab asset instance\) to the API thus internally ending with Transform components that don't belong to a UnityScene. An error message will now be issued when this usage is executed.
    ([UUM-116541](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-physicsmanager-ignorecollision-when-a-gameobject-with-is-trigger-enabled-enters-a-collision-in-a-specific-project))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where when creating a high number of tree colliders on terrain, the editor would crash
    ([UUM-108799](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-windowsvideomedia-getvideoframeatindex-when-instantiating-a-prefab-with-rigidbody-after-loading-a-scene-from-an-asset-bundle))

- Physics 2D: Added missing property allowing the vertices to be read from a ChainGeometry.
    ([UUM-121043](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-way-to-read-vertices-from-a-chaingeometry))

- Physics 2D: Added to the scripting documentation for all physics queries that return multiple results a note of "NOTE: All results are sorted into ascending distance order i.e. the first result is the closest.".
    ([UUM-120631](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-physics-queries-do-not-state-that-results-are-sorted-into-ascending-distance-order))

- Physics 2D: Ensure that "Rigidbody2D.Slide" correctly ignores colliders specified with "Physics2D.IgnoreCollision".
    ([UUM-120474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody2d-dot-slide-correctly-ignores-colliders-specified-with-physics2d-dot-ignorecollision-however-encountering-them-can-still-modify-movement-behaviour-in-subtle-ways))

- Physics 2D: Fix an issue in Physics2D Project Settings where the tab header labels overflow tabs when the settings window width is small.
    ([UUM-116351](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/layer-collision-matrix-header-overlaps-general-settings-label-when-horizontally-resizing-project-settings-window))

- Physics 2D: Fix an issue when using a non-orthographic camera where the low-level physics renderer would momentarily show a shape gizmo at the wrong TransformPlane depth for a single frame.
    ([UUM-115246](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ensure-2d-lowlevel-physics-correctly-uses-elementdepth-for-transformplanes))

- Physics 2D: Fix and issue when using default constructors in a Burst job where a Burst error will be shown in the console.
    ([UUM-115906](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-required-when-using-burst-in-new-low-level-2d-physics))

- Physics 2D: Fix issues with PhysicsUserData and PhysicsRotate causing compilation errors when using in a C\# Job with Burst.
    ([UUM-117671](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physicsuserdata-and-physicsrotate-issues-when-using-burst))

- Physics 2D: PhysicsHingeJoint.motorSpeed and PhysicsWheelJoint.motorSpeed should use degrees not radians to be consistent with the other items in the API.
    ([UUM-115741](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physicshingejoint-and-physicswheeljoint-motorspeed-should-use-degrees-slash-sec))

- Physics 2D: PhysicsShape and PhysicsChain should always use the default PhysicsShape.MoverData which clips velocity with no limits.
    ([UUM-120409](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physicschain-should-use-default-physicsshape-dot-moverdata))

- Physics 2D: Rigidbody2D.Slide should always move to the point of contact independent of the current slide angle threshold.
    ([UUM-120297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody2d-dot-slide-doesnt-always-complete-a-movement-under-certain-circumstances))

- Physics 2D: The low-level physics renderer should only render to "Scene" and "GameView" Camera types.
    ([UUM-119599](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-physics-renderer-renders-in-all-camera-window-types))

- Player: The Player no longer becomes unresponsive after resolution switch in Exclusive Fullscreen mode when using the DX12 Graphics API.
    ([UUM-104762](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-player-becomes-unresponsive-after-resolution-switch-in-exclusive-fullscreen-mode-when-using-dx12-graphics-api))

- Player: The Player now restores correctly when using Alt+Tab in the Exclusive Fullscreen mode when using the DX12 Graphics API.
    ([UUM-67373](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dx12-exclusive-full-screen-mode-player-window-sometimes-doesnt-restore-correctly-after-using-alt-plus-tab))

- Prefabs: Fix an error when creating a new script while adding a new component to a prefab via the AddComponent context menu.
    ([UUM-111102](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-when-adding-valid-monobehaviour-script-to-prefab-in-project-window))

- Profiler: Fixed FrameDataView.GetFrameMetaData api return data after FrameDataView.GetSampleMetaData api call.
    (UUM-119613)

- Profiler: Fixed Memory Snapshots to report the actual MemLabel used at an allocation site when taking a snapshot from an Editor or Player with native allocation call-stack reporting enabled instead of just -1 or 0. For Unity versions 6000.3 or newer, this reporting can be turned on via the commandline argument -enable-memoryprofiler-callstacks.
    ([UUM-116049](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-profiler-the-entrytype-dot-nativeallocationsites-memorylabelindex-of-snapshots-only-reports-1-or-0-instead-of-the-memlabel-used-for-allocations-made-from-any-call-site))

- QNX: Fix seg faults that happen with AsyncOperations when using Windowing API
    (UUM-116540)

- QNX: Fixed main thread name setting
    (UUM-116884)

- QNX: Fixes Windowing API positioning to use correct position relative to requested display
    (UUM-115690)

- QNX: Screen.SetResolution now resizes window buffer correctly in windowed mode on QNX.
    (UUM-114197)

- Scene Manager: Fixed an issue where undoing a hierarchy change with multiple scenes open could result in objects being re-added to the wrong scene.
    ([UUM-112140](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-correctness-game-object-is-placed-in-the-wrong-scene-after-undo))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed a bug where an overlay docked in a corner would be directly undocked when quickly clicking on the dragger.
    ([UUM-116551](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/overlays-are-immediately-undocked-when-the-overlay-is-docked-to-the-right-side-of-scene-view-and-the-overlays-handle-is-clicked))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where opening Game View would crash if the editor's layout had previously serialized with an invalid display target value.
    ([UUM-115918](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-guimanager-doguievent-when-focusing-on-the-game-view-window-on-a-specific-project))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed issue where collapse behaviour of new tool groups would not work until selection changed.
    ([UUM-114922](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-view-custom-tools-are-not-responsive-when-importing-script-with-built-in-creation-tools-group-to-the-project))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed issue where manipulating points using the Edit Light Probe Group would not function correctly.
    ([UUM-115185](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/light-probe-group-edit-gizmo-appears-off-centered-and-is-not-smooth-slash-flickers-when-moving))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed issue where the main toolbar's account dropdown would not show the initials of a logged in user.
    (UUM-114967)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed issue where the overlays' menu popup would only open when UITK elements were hovered.
    (UUM-114670)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed the Cameras overlay popup having the wrong height when first person controls are toggled in the overlay.
    ([UUM-110292](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cameras-menu-window-size-is-broken-when-control-the-selected-camera-in-first-person-dot-is-selected))

- Scripting: Added missing ToString override for SceneHandle struct.
    (UUM-117722)

- Scripting: Disallowed RuntimeInitializeOnLoad decorated methods in generic types
    ([UUM-110409](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidoperationexception-thrown-when-in-standalone-build-a-runtimeinitializeonloadmethod-is-defined-in-an-open-generic-type))

- Scripting: Fixed failure to enter playmode when assembly reload is locked and script changes are pending.
    ([UUM-114845](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/entering-play-mode-fails-when-using-editorapplication-dot-lockreloadassemblies-with-imported-changes-to-the-c-number-script))

- Scripting: `OnDisable` is now being correctly invoked on components of grandchildren when a gameobject is begin destroyed using `Object.Destroy(...)`. Before this fix only components on the gameobject's it self and direct children would have `OnDisable` invoked on them. This is also the same behavior as currently happens for `DestroyImmediate`.
    ([UUM-104524](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-colliders-attached-to-a-grandchild-gameobject-arent-immediately-destroyed-when-destroying-the-parent-gameobjects-in-fixedupdate))

- Search: Keywords are associated to their documents and correctly cleaned up.
    ([UUM-114629](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/indexed-keywords-needs-to-be-updated-removed-when-assets-are-removed))

- Services: Fixed exception events not appearing on the Diagnostics dashboard
    (ULO-7366)

- Shadergraph: Fixed shadergraph compilation issues related to the Spacewarp support.
    ([UUM-108902](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-the-shader-compiler-shows-an-undeclared-identifier-basemap-st-error-when-compiling-the-a-specific-shader))

- Shadergraph: Improved the readability of the text on the signs in the terrain shaders sample, and made the game camera move correctly when in game view and in play mode.
    ([UUM-115058](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/usability-shaders-cannot-be-visually-compared-and-info-panels-arent-easily-readable-in-the-terrain-shaders-sample))

- Shaders: Fixed a rare assertion about keyword space mismatch happening when calling Material.IsKeywordEnabled.
    ([UUM-105534](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/state-comes-from-an-incompatible-keyword-space-errors-when-building-entity-catalogs))

- Shaders: Fixed an instability on shader compilation on platforms that require root signature resolving process.
    (UUM-117693)

- Shaders: Fixed CPU side performance regression when shader has dynamic branch keywords
    (UUM-114974)

- Shaders: Fixed editor crash occurring often with a freshly created project.
    ([UUM-107673](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tlsf-free-when-adding-a-3d-object-to-a-scene-of-a-new-universal-3d-project))

- Shaders: Fixed issue where user-defined constant buffer names containing substring "Globals" would fail in glslang-dependent compilation.
    ([UUM-120318](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-compile-process-adds-shader-id-to-the-constant-buffer-name-when-the-word-globals-is-being-used-in-vulkan))

- Shaders: Fixed memory consumption regression on compute and raytracing shaders in the Editor.
    (UUM-116134)

- Shaders: Fixed unnecessary shader warnings and errors being logged when running with -batchmode -nographics.
    ([UUM-114187](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unnecessary-warnings-are-logged-when-running-player-with-batchmode-nographics))

- Shaders: Shader Foundry: Added a missing option to the `z_test` render state command.

- SpeedTree: Fixed a bug where SpeedTrees loaded as asset bundles could cause the player to crash on exit.
    ([UUM-113224](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-treerenderer-clearrenderers-when-exiting-built-project))

- SRP Core: Display Volume Profile context menu actions as disabled if the profile is empty.
    ([UUM-115965](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/context-menu-actions-collapse-all-expand-all-enable-all-disable-all-remove-all-reset-all-do-nothing-in-volume-component))

- SRP Core: Dispose of compiled graphs on cleanup.
    (UUM-117495)

- SRP Core: Fixed an error with the Blitter.BlitTexture utility when passing a texture with a null rt as a source.
    ([UUM-116675](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-map-overlays-in-rendering-debugger-prevent-the-scene-slash-game-views-from-rendering-and-spam-errors))

- SRP Core: Fixed asserts in Rendering Debugger &gt; Volumes tab after selecting a component.
    ([UUM-116573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ubuntu-assertionexceptions-are-constantly-spammed-into-the-console-when-in-volume-of-rendering-debugger-camera-is-set-to-screencamera-or-scenecamera-and-any-component-is-chosen))

- SRP Core: Fixed incomplete async compute support in Native Render Pass Render Graph compiler, used in both URP and HDRP.
    (UUM-119778)

- SRP Core: Fixed incorrect merging of passes in Render Graph when a pass targets a texture that is sampled in previous pass.
    ([UUM-112857](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/using-addcopypass-causes-an-incorrect-merging-of-passes))

- SRP Core: Fixed IndexOutOfRangeException when using a buffer more times than a texture.
    ([UUM-120616](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/indexoutofrangeexception-is-thrown-in-nativepasscompiler-when-a-graphics-buffer-is-used-in-more-than-5-render-passes))

- SRP Core: Fixed prefab override UI and mixed value behaviour for Rendering Layers mask UI
    ([UUM-110587](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendering-layer-mask-is-not-highlighted-when-the-property-is-overriden))

- SRP Core: Fixed Render Graph pass merging algorithm when VRS is enabled using Shading Rate Image attachment.
    (UUM-102113)

- SRP Core: Fixed successive Render Graph Viewer UI refreshes getting slower over time.
    (UUM-119659)

- SRP Core: Fixed Volume Profile changes not getting saved after the Paste Settings context menu action.
    ([UUM-119513](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/paste-settings-functionality-does-not-save-the-pasted-settings-in-volume-profile-when-reloading-the-project))

- SRP Core: Forward ported an async compute fix from Render Graph legacy compiler to native render pass one, the gfx command buffer was missing a fence when clearing resources used by the async compute command buffer.
    (UUM-117665)

- SRP Core: Improved native render pass render graph culling algorithm to prevent regression with HDRP.
    (UUM-115209)

- Terrain: Corrected default color of Layer masks with index 1 or higher when terrain only has 4 or less terrain layers. Now correctly returns a black texture.
    (UUM-115292)

- Terrain: removed unused options from the shadergraph terrain subtarget, removed unused checkboxes for shadergraph terrain material ui

- Terrain: Setting material override to true then switching to terrain lit subtarget in URP shadergraph doesn't trigger render failures on terrains.
    (UUM-116810)

- Tests: Ensured that the Count method on InvokableCallList remains available across Android and all other platforms.
    (UUM-42513)

- Tests: Reverted fence dependency checking algorithm changes
    (UUM-116058)

- Text: Added early out with invalid padding.
    ([UUM-117619](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-crashes-when-generating-font-atlas-in-the-font-asset-creator-with-9999999999-padding-and-256x256-atlas-resolution))

- Text: Added proper support of soft lines breaks in ATG
    (UUM-112397)

- Text: Ensure AutoSize cascades
    (UUM-115215)

- Text: Ensure Ellipsis state is reset when caching is reused.
    ([UUM-115212](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-manager-dependencies-text-does-not-reappear-after-minimising-and-maximising-the-window))

- Text: Fix ATG hyperlink
    ([UUM-115051](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hyperlink-to-open-example-shader-becomes-inactive-when-hovered-over-in-the-terrain-shader-sample))

- Text: Fix caching issue with fallback
    ([UUM-115402](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/headerattribute-is-not-displayed-in-the-inspector-when-using-non-ascii-characters-in-the-headers-text))

- Text: Fix exception in HasMissingGlyphs
    ([UUM-115267](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uitoolkit-exception-in-the-console-while-resizing-sticky-note-in-vfxgraph))

- Text: Fix missing generate layout
    ([UUM-114585](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/generate-for-all-visible-button-shrinks-when-mouse-is-hovered-on-in-sprite-editor-window))

- Text: Improve UI Builder's notifications around misuse of ATG
    (UUM-112784)

- TextMeshPro: Fixed an issue with margins property so now supports multi-object editing.
    ([UUM-91467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/margins-of-tmp-gameobjects-become-the-same-when-both-are-selected))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed incorrect handling of ligatures that contains variant selectors in their input sequences.
    ([UUM-111750](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-emoji-and-ligature-sequences-containing-variant-selectors-are-misinterpreted))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed incorrect Ligature glyph atlas index when using font assets with Multi Atlas Texture enabled.
    ([UUM-111770](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/emojis-with-different-skin-tone-options-show-incorrectly-when-multi-atlas-textures-is-enabled-in-the-font-asset-properties))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed incorrect preferred height calculations when using more than one font per line of text.
    ([UUM-104237](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-preferred-height-calculation-when-a-single-text-line-uses-different-font-assets))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed incorrect preferred value calculations for text objects that contain characters and / or sprites whose character or glyph metrics have a scale = 0.
    ([UUM-112064](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/contentsizefitter-calculates-incorrect-height-for-textmeshpro-text-containing-sprites-with-scale-factor-equals-0))

- TextMeshPro: Fixed potential NRE when Multi Atlas Texture is used and text geometry exceeds 65535 vertices.
    ([UUM-120500](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-setting-a-long-string-in-tmp-with-atlas-population-mode-set-to-dynamic-and-multi-atlas-textures-enabled))

- TextMeshPro: Improved line breaking for Chinese and Japanese.
    ([UUM-120042](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/line-break-position-changes-in-traditional-chinese-when-consecutive-punctuation-is-used))

- uGUI: Fixed an editor bug where resizing the handle rect of a Slider and then performing an Undo causes its anchors to get reset.
    ([UUM-108288](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/slider-handle-becomes-a-different-size-than-default-when-undoing-change-to-the-width-parameter))

- uGUI: Fixed excessive rebuilding and resetting of Layout Groups.
    (UUM-120010)

- uGUI: Fixed label clipping on Horizontal and Vertical Layout components in the inspector
    (UUM-99003)

- uGUI: Fixed layout groups not updating when an empty RectTransform child changes size.
    ([UUM-103876](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vertical-layout-group-doesnt-maintain-proper-spacing-when-nested-ui-elements-change-size-at-runtime))

- uGUI: Fixed World Space Canvas UI elements not displaying reflections from Reflection Probes.
    ([UUM-75922](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/world-space-canvas-ui-elements-do-not-display-reflections-from-reflection-probes-when-using-the-3d-built-in-or-the-universal-render-pipeline))

- uGUI: RawImage no longer crashes when attempting to utilize its assigned Texture when the value is an object reference of an invalid type.
    ([UUM-117371](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-unityengine-dot-ui-dot-rawimage-onpopulatemesh-when-playing-raw-image-texture-animation-with-sprite-keyframes))

- uGUI: Updated drag tracking to release all active drag events when the application loses focus.
    ([UUM-104163](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onenddrag-event-not-triggered-when-losing-editor-focus-during-simultaneous-left-and-right-mouse-drag))

- UI: Fixed an issue where the \[TextArea\] attribute and Diffusion Profile Settings UI could be rendered incorrectly.
    ([UUM-113564](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-name-of-the-last-string-with-a-textarea-attribute-is-rendered-in-the-top-left-corner-of-the-script-component-when-the-customeditor-class-is-used))

- UI Toolkit: Add UITK Basic Template for Shader Graph.
    (UUM-114233)

- UI Toolkit: Added missing converter between a RenderTexture and a StyleBackground.
    ([UUM-120865](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-bind-rendertexture-to-the-visualelements-stylebackground-property))

- UI Toolkit: Added PanelInputConfiguration component icon.
    (UUM-115766)

- UI Toolkit: Added support for ScreenPosition in UITK Custom Shader.
    ([UUM-115115](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cant-use-screen-position-node-in-ui-custom-shader))

- UI Toolkit: Added UI Document and StyleSheet file types in create menu entries.
    (UUM-116809)

- UI Toolkit: Corrected support multi-threading in UIToolkit worldspace rendering.
    ([UUM-109817](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tlsf-free-when-rendering-ui-toolkit-panel-in-world-space-on-a-specific-project))

- UI Toolkit: Disabled overflow:hidden set by defaults buttons.
    (UUM-120181)

- UI Toolkit: Fix "Extract inline style" option bug in UIBuilder
    ([UUM-105327](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-doesnt-update-the-style-sheet-when-using-extract-inline-style-right-click-option))

- UI Toolkit: Fix scale and crop VectorImage clipping issue.
    ([UUM-104608](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/image-is-distorted-when-visualelement-is-scaled-and-scale-mode-set-to-scale-and-crop))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed a problem when measuring the text size using ATG with an explicit font size on a textElement
    (UUM-116728)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an error when trying to read a StyleSheet Keyword value from a property name.
    ([UUM-116350](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-are-thrown-and-functionality-breaks-when-using-a-uss-class-with-transition-property-none-in-ui-builder))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an exception when trying to convert a list of null assets to a UXML list.
    ([UUM-116892](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-and-list-items-not-saved-when-adding-elements-to-list-uxmlattribute-in-ui-builder))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue in the UI Builder where UXML attributes representing serialize references were not overridden correctly.
    ([UUM-112944](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-does-not-detect-changes-to-serializereference-fields-when-modifying-custom-uxml-control-attributes))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where C\# keywords could not be used as identifiers when code-generating the property bags.
    ([UUM-113921](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/source-generation-with-generatepropertybag-fails-when-using-reserved-keywords-as-variable-names-with-at-prefix))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where nullable references could break compilation if they appeared before the type definition.
    ([UUM-115834](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/generatepropertybag-code-generation-fails-when-nullable-is-used-with-the-partial-class-modifier))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed ArgumentException when scheduling action during DetachFromPanelEvent and then moving the element to another active panel.
    (UUM-117338)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed assertion failure when using filters in a world-space panel.
    (UUM-119767)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed color fields for custom filter functions.
    ([UUM-119220](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-filter-definition-with-color-property-doesnt-show-up-in-ui-builder))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed dirty state handling for UXML and USS files in the UI Builder.<br>
    <br>
    Fixed UUM-112105 @guillaume-riendeau:<br>
    UI Toolkit: Set a maximum character limit for VisualElement names in the UI Builder to avoid freezes.<br>
    <br>
    Fixed UUM-87168 @guillaume-riendeau:<br>
    UI Toolkit: Fixed VisualTreeAsset name being empty after being saved by UI Builder.<br>
    <br>
    Internal @guillaume-riendeau:<br>
    UI Toolkit: Reenabled various UI Builder tests.
    ([UUM-49819](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/referred-style-sheet-stays-dirty-after-saving-when-using-the-uibuilder))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed Element Texture Size node to match Texture Size node.
    ([UUM-119212](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/element-texture-size-node-isnt-consistent-with-texture-size-node))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed generated UxmlElement and UxmlObject code not fully qualifying some types.
    ([UUM-116673](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/code-generation-fails-to-prefix-the-fully-qualified-reference-with-global-when-a-property-is-tagged-with-uxmlattribute-or-uxmlobjectreference-that-contains-a-similar-namespace-segment-as-the-current-classs-namespace))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed ImmediateModeElement not clipping and drawing with an invalid offset in the Game View.
    ([UUM-110223](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/offset-rendering-occurs-when-drawing-a-custom-immediatemodeelement))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed missing keywords from UI Toolkit custom shaders.
    ([UUM-114060](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-opaque-color-displayed-in-the-ui-builder-when-using-a-custom-shader))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed mouse sometimes becoming permanently unresponsive on other world space documents when destroying a world-space document while it's being clicked.
    ([UUM-117081](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-input-becomes-unresponsive-when-the-uidocument-gameobject-is-destroyed))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed NullReferenceException sometimes happening when UI Debugger is in an inactive tab.
    ([UUM-117267](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-is-present-when-the-ui-toolkit-debugger-window-is-docked-and-inactive-on-editor-launch))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed right-click on TextField not selecting the text before opening the Context Menu on MacOS.
    (UUM-102230)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed scene always made dirty when inspecting UIDocuments.
    ([UUM-115255](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-docment-marked-dirty-when-inspected))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed SearchField padding.
    ([UUM-116865](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-search-is-not-filled-in-completely-when-entering-a-string-of-characters-long-enough))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed SVG Gradients showing as yellow when drawn with a custom shader.
    ([UUM-115302](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/default-gradient-node-returns-yellow-when-used-with-largepixelcoverage-hint))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the incorrect padding top applied on the collection view's contentContainer when rebuilding a list with a valid offset.
    ([UUM-92179](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-blackboard-scrolls-to-the-top-and-generates-an-artifact-when-duplicating-attributes-when-the-blackboard-has-been-scrolled-down-and-the-custom-attributes-list-is-expanded))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the item first item of the list view disappearing and the items not showing when spamming the add button.
    (UUM-114653)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the scroll to item not applying the correct offset on the last item in multi-columns controls.
    ([UUM-115202](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-v2-is-not-automatically-scrolled-to-the-newly-created-gameobject))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed transparency in UITK SVG Importer and add support for Stroke Fill Gradient.
    (UUM-117651)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Document sometimes not showing in Game View after assigning a new Panel Settings value to it.
    (UUM-120369)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Documents sometimes appearing in the wrong sort order when entering play mode.
    ([UUM-119306](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uidocument-sort-order-is-randomly-wrong))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Toolkit Samples window code hiding line leading whitespaces in code sections.
    ([UUM-120577](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/indents-missing-from-uitk-samples-window))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UIToolkit worlspace crash when saving scene.
    (UUM-117346)

- UI Toolkit: Improve search result message in UI Toolkit Layout Debugger.
    ([UUM-115950](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/last-item-reached-warning-is-thrown-when-no-search-results-are-found-in-ui-toolkit-layout-debugger))

- UI Toolkit: PopupField now automatically updates its selected value and displayed text when its choices property changes.
    ([UUM-120183](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-dropdownfield-slash-basepopupfield-choices-should-update-value-label))

- UI Toolkit: Remove support for Uxml Traits in the UIBuilder.

- UI Toolkit: Removed extraneous shaders from UI Document references.
    (UUM-120303)

- UI Toolkit: Skipping fragment shading when opacity is 0.
    ([UUM-116792](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-meshes-are-fully-rendered-and-rasterized-when-opacity-is-0))

- UI Toolkit: The UXML file importer will now show a button to fix issues with Template and Style src paths that have changed but can still be resolved via their guid.
    ([UUM-116534](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-prompt-with-apply-overwrite-files-button-is-not-available-when-associated-template-is-moved))

- Undo System: Changed to objects which do not change the scene no longer trigger a scene dirty.
    (UUM-114657)

- Undo System: Prevent adding more modifications while generating of undo actions
    ([UUM-110255](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-typetreequeries-isstreamedbinarycompatible-or-typetreeiterator-getnode-when-entering-the-play-mode-in-the-editor))

- UNET: Fixed the UI Builder's selector pill being frozen when dragging and scrolling at the same time.
    ([UUM-93877](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selector-gets-stuck-in-ui-if-scroll-is-used-while-dragging))

- Universal RP: Added optional terrain shader inclusion setting in URP Graphics settings. Unchecking it will prevent terrain detail shaders from being added to the build.
    ([UUM-109540](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-terrain-shaders-are-always-included-when-building-on-any-target-platform))

- Universal RP: Depth Texture Mode' on the URP Renderer should only have effect when the 'Depth Texture' is checked on the URP asset or Camera. Selecting 'Force Prepass' now does not add the pass when 'Depth Texture' is off.
    (UUM-120047)

- Universal RP: Fixed a warning that was logged when injecting a pass on `AfterRenderPostProcessing` + X.
    ([UUM-109361](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-are-logged-and-rendererfeature-that-requests-an-intermediate-texture-does-not-work-when-adding-an-offset-to-the-renderpassevent))

- Universal RP: Fixed error in builds when using Forward rendering with strict variant matching.
    (UUM-110871)

- Universal RP: Fixed missing intermediate color texture for ColorCopy Pass when rendering to RenderTexture asset \(offscreen rendering\).
    (UUM-119604)

- Universal RP: Fixed missing shader variant in URP when drawing to an offscreen depth only image.
    ([UUM-105409](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-lights-dont-exhibit-shadows-when-strict-shader-variant-matching-is-disabled-in-windows-standalone-player))

- Universal RP: Fixed SSAO precision issue on Mobile devices.
    (UUM-119495)

- Universal RP: Fixed sticky m_RenderStateBlock.depthState in the Forward Opaque \(Only\) pass. The state wasn't cleared to the default after depth priming was turned on and off again. In this case ZWrite was forced on, ignoring ZWrite properties in the shader.
    (UUM-117359)

- Universal RP: Forward+ and deferred+ will no longer include reflection probes with a null texture in the clustering. This previously cause the clustering code to use old reflection probe data which was no longer valid if the texture was removed. This would show up when clearing baked reflection probe data while using one of the 2 renderers.
    (UUM-116088)

- Universal RP: Until now, our shader code assumed that either all fog shader keywords were enabled, or none were. This assumption is true in our shaders, but doesn't have to be in user shaders. This release adds support for declaring only some fog keywords, in the interest of speeding up shader compile times.
    ([UUM-107502](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-fail-to-compile-with-undeclared-identifier-fog-exp-when-using-number-pragma-shader-feature-fog-linear))

- Universal Windows Platform: The main thread will now be correctly identified as MainThread in external debuggers and profilers.

- URP: Fixed depth backbuffer support with Gizmos in Game view, effectively removing the incorrect warning message "CommandBuffer: built-in render texture type 3 not found while executing"
    ([UUM-104383](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gizmos-are-not-rendering-in-game-view))

- URP: Fixed screen space shadows artifacts when using Vulkan on some Android devices.
    ([UUM-116048](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-artifacts-appear-in-the-player-when-using-screen-space-shadows-with-orthographic-camera))

- URP: Fixed SSAOOnly pass in the deferred path to be compatible with Native Render Pass.
    ([UUM-113638](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/screen-space-ambient-occlusion-is-not-visible-when-the-directional-light-intensity-is-0-dot-001-or-lower-with-the-deferred-rendering-path-selected))

- URP: Render Pipeline Converter - Allow Ppv2, and 2D converters to be run in batchmode.
    ([UUM-115064](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/render-pipeline-converter-run-batchmode-ppv2-and-2d-converters-are-not-available-to-run-in-batch))

- URP: Render Pipeline Converter - Crash when initializing Readonly Material converter due to the change for the search index and the asset database worker threads.
    ([UUM-114970](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/render-pipeline-converter-readonly-material-converter-crash-when-initializing-converter))

- URP: Render Pipeline Converter - Readonly Material converter was changing prefabs instance when they were not overridden instead of the prefab.
    ([UUM-115313](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/render-pipeline-converter-read-only-material-converter-scene-referencing-prefabs-get-a-prefab-override-instead-of-only-changing-the-prefab))

- Version Control: Fixed AssetImportWorkers crash on compiling ASMDEF while collab-proxy package is upgrading.
    ([UUM-107732](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetimportworkers-crash-when-asmdef-are-deleted))

- Version Control: Fixed issue in UnityYAMLMerge not able to read files under multibyte character paths.
    (UUM-119455)

- Version Control: Fixed the error that was thrown when the "Configure Unity Version Control" button is pressed in the Build Automation settings in Build Profiles
    ([UUM-115391](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/failed-to-open-uvcs-window-error-is-thrown-when-the-configure-unity-version-control-button-is-pressed-in-the-build-automation-settings-in-build-profiles))

- Version Control: Updated PerforcePlugin to use ARM64 arch for ARM64 MacEditor - P4 API 2023.1 or higher.
    (UUM-43482)

- VFX Graph: Added icons on VFXRenderer.
    ([UUM-114864](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-renderer-properties-in-animation-window-doesnt-use-any-icons))

- VFX Graph: Adjust "Prewarm Time" input field to fit 2 digits of precision
    ([UUM-113612](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/numeric-input-field-for-prewarm-time-doesnt-fully-display-decimal-values))

- VFX Graph: Adjust padding on Sub Mesh Mask label for mesh outputs.
    ([UUM-113945](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sub-mesh-mask-field-in-vfx-graph-has-no-padding))

- VFX Graph: Avoid text cutoff when a context name is really long
    ([UUM-114091](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/node-name-gets-cut-off-in-the-visual-effect-graph-when-the-name-is-long))

- VFX Graph: Changed space in ShaderGraph Ouput Inspector is functional.
    ([UUM-114265](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/space-can-not-be-changed-in-shadergraph-output-inspector))

- VFX Graph: Fix "Transform has 'VFXManager' change interests present..." errors
    ([UUM-115873](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transform-has-vfxmanager-change-interests-present-dot-dot-dot-when-changing-scenes))

- VFX Graph: Fix Graph Debug Information window sometimes not displaying information with gameobject attached
    ([UUM-113047](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-graph-debug-information-window-does-not-display-information-and-shows-select-a-gameobject-running-this-vfx-warning-when-the-gameobject-is-already-selected))

- VFX Graph: Fix Parallax Occlusion Mapping usage in SG
    ([UUM-110541](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/parallax-occlusion-mapping-shadergraph-node-does-not-work-correctly-with-vfx-graph))

- VFX Graph: Fix system turning invalid after disconnect/connect when mixing particle system outputs with particle strip data
    ([UUM-115053](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mixing-strip-and-regular-contexts-prevents-vfx-from-rendering))

- VFX Graph: Fixed "An edge with the same input and output already exists" error popping in the graph.
    ([UUM-120233](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-edge-with-the-same-input-and-output-already-exists-is-thrown-when-operators-are-connected-to-blocks))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an error message when closing the editor with the VFX Graph node search popup opened on macOS
    ([UUM-114024](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/create-node-popup-remains-and-a-nullreferenceexception-error-is-thrown-when-the-create-node-popup-is-opened-and-the-project-is-reopened))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an issue with custom hlsl when line comments are put on top of the code for an operator.
    ([UUM-116688](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-compilation-fails-when-custom-hlsl-starts-with-multiple-slash-slash-comment-lines))

- VFX Graph: Fixed blackboard losing selection when scrolling.
    (UUM-103964)

- VFX Graph: Fixed copy paste custom hlsl block was losing input values
    ([UUM-115377](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-copy-slash-pasting-customhlsl-blocks-erase-they-slots-values))

- VFX Graph: Fixed enum field was not set properly and then UI was always resetting to default value
    ([UUM-109559](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-subgraph-enum-slot-values-are-reset-upon-ui-refresh))

- VFX Graph: Fixed preview being too bright in HDRP lit scenario.
    ([UUM-119331](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-appears-white-and-lacks-color-in-preview-window-when-created-and-observed-in-hdrp-project))

- VFX Graph: Fixed wrong colors used in light theme in the template editor section in the inspector.
    (UUM-114579)

- VFX Graph: GPU Time Threshold in Heatmap Parameters clamped to positive values only.
    ([UUM-114294](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gpu-time-threshold-in-vfx-graph-heatmap-parameters-can-be-set-to-a-negative-value))

- VFX Graph: Handling correctly ShaderGraph where only one SRP support VFX but not the current one
    ([UUM-115004](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-is-not-being-compiled-when-unticking-support-vfx-graph-setting-when-both-urp-and-hdrp-are-used-as-active-targets))

- VFX Graph: Limit Visual Effect asset prewarm step count to a max of 2400 steps.
    ([UUM-119454](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-prewarm-parameters-on-vfx-graph-leads-to-significant-performance-drops-and-freeze))

- VFX Graph: Missing dirty while modifying ShaderGraph Output
    ([UUM-115015](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changes-in-output-inspector-surface-options-do-not-mark-the-asset-as-dirty-and-after-undoing-edits-to-particle-options-values-the-graph-is-marked-as-dirty))

- VFX Graph: Opening Twice the same subgraph was possible after domain reload.
    ([UUM-113965](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-same-subgraph-window-can-be-opened-multiple-times-after-a-domain-reload))

- VFX Graph: Prevent multiple outputs in a same graph to have the same shader name.
    (UUM-117582)

- VFX Graph: Prevent template name from being empty if asset is used a template.<br>
    The description field is now multiline and accepts 512 characters instead of 256.<br>
    Updated the documentation.
    (UUM-113976)

- VFX Graph: Prevent warning about pow with potential negative value in Position Sphere block.
    ([UUM-116017](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-warning-set-position-shape-block-using-the-thickness-mode))

- VFX Graph: Properly handle empty enum values in the blackboard and now forbid to remove the last enum value so the list is never empty.
    ([UUM-120288](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/removing-all-enum-values-from-uint-property-in-vfx-blackboard-causes-argumentoutofrangeexception-error-and-breaks-blackboard))

- VFX Graph: Refresh attached VisualEffect when visual effect component changes
    ([UUM-113966](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-attach-button-is-active-and-shows-the-attached-to-visual-effect-tooltip-when-the-visual-effect-graph-is-no-longer-attached))

- VFX Graph: Removed the expander icon for buffer inputs
    ([UUM-113763](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/buffer-ports-in-vfx-graph-have-an-expand-icon-whereas-they-have-no-subports))

- VFX Graph: Sticky note title was disappearing when empty, preventing any further edition.
    ([UUM-114082](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-sticky-note-title-field-is-removed-after-deleting-the-title-text-without-a-way-of-restoring-it))

- VFX Graph: Undo/Redo breakage on ShaderGraph Output
    (UUM-115036)

- VFX Graph: Updated the Point Cache window title.
    ([UUM-115841](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/point-cache-window-displays-incorrect-title-pcache-instead-of-full-point-cache))

- VFX Graph: VFXRAND in custom hlsl was not working as expected
    ([UUM-115368](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-issue-with-seed-and-vfxrand-in-custom-hlsl))

- VFX Graph: When the last selected template was out of the scroll view when opening the template window, the details view was empty.
    ([UUM-115014](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-template-info-is-not-shown-if-a-template-was-selected-before-cancelling-template-creation-and-template-is-at-bottom-of-the-list))

- Video: Fixed recording is not created when path containing Japanese characters.

- Video: Refine sRGB texture linearization compatibility checks for WebKit and older Firefox versions
    ([UUM-110367](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transparent-webm-video-does-not-show-transparency-on-firefox-webgl-when-linear-color-space-is-used))

- Video: \[Linux\] Crash on VideoPlayer::InvokeScriptCallbacks when domain reloads while playing a video
    ([UUM-110165](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-on-videoplayer-invokescriptcallbacks-when-domain-reloads-while-playing-a-video))

- WebGL: Fix build warning from APV when targeting WebGPU
    (UUM-117216)

- WebGL: Fix for WebGPU errors when using APV Lighting Scenario Blending
    ([UUM-117230](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgpu-errors-with-apv-lighting-scenario-blending))

- WebGL: Fix web build issue when static libraries are included in the project.
    ([UUM-115822](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/static-libraries-cause-web-build-to-fail))

- WebGL: Fix WebGPU depthBiasSlopeScale error when rendering points
    ([UUM-116433](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgpu-errors-when-point-primitives-are-rendered))

- WebGL: Fix WebGPU error when uploading compressed texture mip levels that are not block size aligned
    ([UUM-116437](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgpu-errors-when-compressed-texture-has-non-aligned-mip-levels))

- WebGL: Fixed an issue where `DownloadHandlerScript.CompleteContent` was called twice in WebGL builds.
    ([UUM-109862](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/downloadhandlerscript-dot-completecontent-is-called-twice-when-building-for-webgl))

- WebGL: Fixed WebCamDevice.isFrontFacing for WebGL on iOS when the device is set to a non-English language.
    ([UUM-108292](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-ios-webcamdevice-dot-isfrontfacing-is-always-logged-as-true-on-an-ios-webgl-when-the-system-language-is-set-to-non-english-option))

- WebGL: Implement GraphicsStateCollection support for WebGPU.

- WebGL: \[WebGPU\] Enable support for the float32-blendable extension to enable blending of RGBA32Float textures.
    ([UUM-117370](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/32bit-floating-point-rendertexture-blending-feature-is-not-available-for-webgpu))

- Windows: The main thread will now be correctly identified as MainThread in external debuggers and profilers.

- XR: Fixed following features issues when XR and ScalableBufferManager are in used:<br>
    -Deferred Light<br>
    -Decal ScreeenSpace on Forward<br>
    -Various screen space effects using _ScreenSize and _ScaledScreenParam shader properties
    (UUM-114731)

- XR: Fixed spacewarp having artifacts due to the matrices not being correct
    (UUM-116464)




#### Preview of Final 6000.4.0a2 Package changes

#### Packages updated

- com.unity.netcode: [1.7.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode@1.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.9.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode@1.9//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.2d.pixel-perfect: [5.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.pixel-perfect@5.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [5.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.2d.pixel-perfect@5.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.addressables: [2.7.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.addressables@2.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.7.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.addressables@2.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.animation.rigging: [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.animation.rigging@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.3.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.animation.rigging@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.burst: [1.8.24](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.burst@1.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.8.25](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.burst@1.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.cinemachine: [2.10.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.10.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.collab-proxy: [2.9.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.collab-proxy@2.9//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.9.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.collab-proxy@2.9//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.editorcoroutines: [1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.editorcoroutines@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.editorcoroutines@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.ide.rider: [3.0.36](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ide.rider@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.0.38](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ide.rider@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.inputsystem: [1.14.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.14//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.15.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.15//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.localization: [1.5.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.localization@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.5.8](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.localization@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.mobile.android-logcat: [1.4.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.mobile.android-logcat@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.mobile.android-logcat@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.mobile.notifications: [2.4.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.mobile.notifications@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.mobile.notifications@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.postprocessing: [3.5.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.postprocessing@3.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.5.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.postprocessing@3.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.probuilder: [6.0.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.probuilder@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.0.7](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.probuilder@6.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.user-reporting: [2.0.11](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.user-reporting@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.12](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.user-reporting@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.purchasing: [4.12.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.purchasing@4.12//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.13.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.purchasing@4.13//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.recorder: [5.1.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.recorder@5.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [5.1.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.recorder@5.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.render-pipelines.core: [17.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.core@17.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [17.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.core@17.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition: [17.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition@17.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [17.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition@17.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition-config: [17.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition-config@17.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [17.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition-config@17.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.render-pipelines.universal: [17.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal@17.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [17.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal@17.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.render-pipelines.universal-config: [17.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal-config@17.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [17.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal-config@17.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.scriptablebuildpipeline: [2.4.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.scriptablebuildpipeline@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.scriptablebuildpipeline@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.analytics: [6.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.analytics@6.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.analytics@6.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.authentication: [3.5.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.authentication@3.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.5.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.authentication@3.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.ccd.management: [3.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.ccd.management@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.ccd.management@3.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.cloudcode: [2.10.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloudcode@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.10.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloudcode@2.10//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.cloudsave: [2.2.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloudsave@2.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.2.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloudsave@2.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.cloud-build: [2.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloud-build@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.cloud-build@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.core: [1.15.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.core@1.15//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.15.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.core@1.15//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.friends: [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.friends@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.friends@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.push-notifications: [4.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.push-notifications@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [4.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.push-notifications@4.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.vivox: [16.6.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.vivox@16.6//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [16.7.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.vivox@16.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.wire: [1.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.wire@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.wire@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.shadergraph: [17.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.shadergraph@17.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [17.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.shadergraph@17.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.splines: [2.8.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.8.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.splines@2.8//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.test-framework: [1.5.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.test-framework@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.6.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.test-framework@1.6//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.test-framework.performance: [3.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.test-framework.performance@3.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [3.2.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.test-framework.performance@3.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.testtools.codecoverage: [1.2.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.testtools.codecoverage@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.2.7](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.testtools.codecoverage@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.visualeffectgraph: [17.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualeffectgraph@17.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [17.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.visualeffectgraph@17.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arcore: [6.3.0-pre.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arcore@6.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arcore@6.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arfoundation: [6.3.0-pre.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arfoundation@6.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arfoundation@6.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.arkit: [6.3.0-pre.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arkit@6.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [6.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.arkit@6.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.core-utils: [2.5.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.core-utils@2.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.5.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.core-utils@2.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.meta-openxr: [2.2.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.meta-openxr@2.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.3.0-pre.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.meta-openxr@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.openxr: [1.16.0-pre.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.16//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.16.0-pre.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.openxr@1.16//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.formats.fbx: [5.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.formats.fbx@5.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [5.1.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.formats.fbx@5.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.autodesk.fbx: 5.1.1 to 5.1.2

- com.unity.learn.iet-framework: [5.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework@5.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [5.0.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework@5.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.learn.iet-framework.authoring: [1.5.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework.authoring@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.5.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.learn.iet-framework.authoring@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.terrain-tools: [5.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.terrain-tools@5.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [5.3.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.terrain-tools@5.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.profiling.systemmetrics.mali: [1.0.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.profiling.systemmetrics.mali@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.0-pre.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.profiling.systemmetrics.mali@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.transport: [2.5.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.transport@2.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.6.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.transport@2.6//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.memoryprofiler: [1.1.8](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.memoryprofiler@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.9](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.memoryprofiler@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.netcode.gameobjects: [2.4.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode.gameobjects@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.5.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.netcode.gameobjects@2.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.ai.navigation: [2.0.7](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ai.navigation@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.0.9](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.ai.navigation@2.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.apis: [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.apis@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.apis@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.deployment: [1.5.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.6.2](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.deployment@1.6//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.services.tooling: [1.3.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.tooling@1.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.services.tooling@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.addressables.android: [1.0.6](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.addressables.android@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.0.7](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.addressables.android@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.microsoft.gdk: [1.4.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.microsoft.gdk.tools: [1.4.4](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk.tools@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.4.5](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk.tools@1.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.microsoft.gdk.discovery: [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk.discovery@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.1.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.microsoft.gdk.discovery@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.polyspatial: [2.3.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.polyspatial@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.polyspatial@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.polyspatial.visionos: [2.3.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.polyspatial.visionos@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.polyspatial.visionos@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.polyspatial.xr: [2.3.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.polyspatial.xr@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.polyspatial.xr@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.polyspatial.extensions: [2.3.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.polyspatial.extensions@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.polyspatial.extensions@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.xr.visionos: [2.3.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.visionos@2.3//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [2.4.3](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.xr.visionos@2.4//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.asset-manager-for-unity: [1.5.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.asset-manager-for-unity@1.5//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.7.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.asset-manager-for-unity@1.7//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- com.unity.web.stripping-tool: [1.1.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.web.stripping-tool@1.1//changelog/CHANGELOG.html) to [1.2.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.web.stripping-tool@1.2//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

**Packages added**

- [com.unity.project-auditor-rules@1.0.0](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.project-auditor-rules@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- [com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- [com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- [com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- [com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- [com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64-linux@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64-linux@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- [com.unity.sysroot.base@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.sysroot.base@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- [com.unity.sdk.linux-x86_64@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.sdk.linux-x86_64@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

- [com.unity.sdk.linux-arm64@1.0.1](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.sdk.linux-arm64@1.0//changelog/CHANGELOG.html)

**Packages deprecated**

- com.unity.services.cloud-diagnostics - "Attention: Cloud Diagnostics is deprecated, and will be phased out in future versions of Unity. For more robust reports and device information, including information on Application Not Responding (ANR) errors for Android, use the diagnostics (https://docs.unity.com/en-us/cloud/developer-data/diagnostics) experience available in Unity 6.2 and later."

- com.unity.services.lobby - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.services.matchmaker - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.services.multiplay - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.services.relay - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.xr.interactionsubsystems - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version."

- com.unity.sysroot - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version. Use com.unity.sysroot.base instead."

- com.unity.sysroot.linux-x86_64 - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version. Use com.unity.sdk.linux-x86_64 instead."

- com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64 - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version. Use com.unity.toolchain.linux-x86_64-linux instead."

- com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux-x86_64 - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version. Use com.unity.toolchain.macos-x86_64-linux instead."

- com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux-x86_64 - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version. Use com.unity.toolchain.macos-arm64-linux instead."

- com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux-x86_64 - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version. Use com.unity.toolchain.win-x86_64-linux instead."

- com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux-x86_64 - "This package is no longer supported on this editor version. Use com.unity.toolchain.win-arm64-linux instead."

**Packages no longer available**

- com.unity.2d.enhancers

- com.unity.path-tracing

- com.unity.project-auditor