#### Improvement

*   BlackBerry: Passport device now supports landscape orientation.
*   Bug reporter: Added info about license type.
*   Editor: Android - Added the ability to configure JDK path in the Editor preferences.
*   Editor: Android TV - Added the configuration option for D-pad and gamepad support level.
*   GI: Allow higher AO exponent in Lighting window.
*   GI: Fixed inconsistent Enlighten build timings; now it should correspond to wall clock time. (Unless you move at near speed of light relative to your computer, in which case it might still be wrong).
*   GI: Users will now be warned when building scenes with Precomputed Realtime GI ticked on platforms that do not support Realtime GI.
*   Graphics: Shaders now read consistent values across platforms for vertex properties that are missing in a Mesh. We have adopted the OpenGL standard, which is that normals default to (0,0,1) and tangents default to (1,0,0).
*   Physics 2D: Allow SurfaceEffector2D to control whether friction or bounce is used upon contact.
*   Physics 2D: Allow SurfaceEffector2D to control whether the impulse force is applied to the center-of-mass or contact-point.
*   Physics 2D: Improve PointEffector2D.distanceScale tooltip/documentation.
*   Version Control: Added the "delete empty changesets" button.
*   Version Control: Added Shortcut to save changeset window.
*   Version Control: Close change window automatically on success.
*   Version Control: Now new changesets are defaulted to expanded.

#### Change

*   GI: Disabled unused Xbox360 solver data generation.
*   Input: Changed Input.GetJoystickNames() on Windows to always match names to joystick numbers, similar to most other platforms.
*   Terrain: Only textures with Repeat wrap mode can be used as terrain splat textures now.
*   Terrain: Removed 'Override Smoothness' option from terrain settings. A new per-splat smoothness property is available when the splat texture has no alpha channel.

#### Fixes

*   (672679) - Android: Always enable VSync on Android non-development builds.
*   (none) - Android: Buildpipe - Fixed AAR manifest merging.
*   (662911) - Android: Fixed back button crash on Samsung devices.
*   (668969) - Android: Fixed checkjni exception when passing array in JNI at ART.
*   (645846) - Android: Fixed crash on ARM devices when running x86 apk.
*   ([668265](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-gui-bar-stays-after-coming-back-to-app-from-home-on-android-5)) - Android: Fixed immersive mode when returning to activity in Lollipop.
*   (none) - Android: Reenabled SSE skinning.
*   ([663535](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/keyboard-gets-stuck-if-its-open-while-opening-recents-on-lollipop-devices)) - Android: Workaround for animation glitch with onscreen keyboard.
*   (669881) - API Updater: Automatic update from ParticleSystem.CollisionEvent to ParticleCollisionEvent.
*   ([677054](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crash-upon-opening-unity-4-dot-6-project-in-5-dot-0)) - API Updater: Fixed the issue causing crash while checking assemblies for obsolete API usage.
*   ([677346](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assemblies-are-not-processed-by-updater-in-some-scenarios)) - API Updater: Fixed API updater skipping assemblies in some scenarios.
*   (none) - Audio: Given AudioImporter overrideSamplerate a default value that makes sense.
*   (677613) - Audio: Fixed the "Disable Audio" option, the flag is now correctly used by the standalone player to disable the audio system.
*   (none) - BlackBerry: Fixed platform lookup from string to be case insensitive.
*   (665035) - Bug reporter: Fixed issue with submitting files when temp path includes non-ASCII characters.
*   (667598) - Bug reporter: Fixed the issue causing crash when attaching files on OSX 10.8.5.
*   (675706) - Bug reporter: Hidden files are now always included in bug reports.
*   (671321) - Bug reporter: Updated links to the new Bug Reporter (when it's started from outside the Editor).
*   (645316), ([614238](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/concurrent-editor-instances-with-different-projects-can-load-wrong-project)) - Deployment Management: Prevent simultaneous launches of Unity loading wrong project.
*   (645846) - Editor: Android - Don't allow to install x86 apk on arm device.
*   ([674633](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-runs-at-a-maximum-of-30fps-in-editor-when-hierarcy-scene-and-game-view-are-visble)) - Editor: Disable vsync for all views except GameView on OSX.
*   ([647394](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-selecting-ntfs-external-drive-as-the-gicache-location-on-osx)) - Editor: Fixed the issue producing fatal error when choosing unwritable drive as a GICache folder on OSX.
*   ([674679](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selecting-a-filtered-game-object-in-play-mode-causes-a-nullreferenceexception)) - Editor: Fixed null-ref from SceneView when having a Hierarchy search filter.
*   (674055) - Editor: Fixed crash when compressing GI cache files with lz4.
*   (673707) - Editor: Necessity of rebuilding .meta files detected incorrectly for projects that contain only directories in Assets/.
*   (none) - Fixed performance load balancing issue in CullAllPerObjectLights that caused only one job to be run rather than many (occurred when high number of lights and low number of objects)
*   (672964) - GI: Changing directional mode in lighting tab does not force reflection probe.
*   (675113) - GI: Fixed rare crash in realtime GI pipeline caused by textures held by worker threads being released too early.
*   ([658618](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/black-triangles-at-random-vertex-positions)) - Graphics: Fixed vertices being lit entirely black on DirectX 11 when normals are missing and the vertex position is (0,0,0).
*   (670887) - IL2CPP / Raknet : Fixed RPC call registration not working on IL2CPP backend.
*   (669983) - iOS/IL2CPP: Now allow the LogInAsync method in the ParseSDK to work correctly.
*   (667476) - iOS/IL2CPP: Always initialize type information before accessing static fields.
*   (none) - iOS/IL2CPP: Corrected the C++ compiler error in generated code: "error: cast from pointer to smaller type 'il2cpp\_array\_size\_t' (aka 'int') loses information"
*   (669435) - iOS/IL2CPP: Correctly write include definitions for a generic class with a const field.
*   (none) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed Array.CopyTo() fast path, which was doing the wrong thing when the source array was a value type and destination array was not.
*   (671995) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed List.FindAll().
*   ([670763](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-when-compiling-a-project-that-uses-rabbitmq-as-webgl)) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed a case where having throw statement at the end of a method would cause IL2CPP to crash.
*   ([670763](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-when-compiling-a-project-that-uses-rabbitmq-as-webgl)) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed array marshaling when passing an incorrect argument.
*   (none) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed C++ compile error in some cases when using fields with the same name in a class hierarchy.
*   (none) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed C++ linker error in some cases when using generic method constraints.
*   (669257) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed null reference exception when calling TripleDES.Create.
*   (676039), (671616) - iOS/IL2CPP: Handle code generation for an struct which has an array of enums as a field.
*   ([671790](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-assembly-dot-globalassemblycache-not-supported-when-built-with-il2cpp-backend)) - iOS/IL2CPP: Implemented Assembly.GlobalAssemblyCache so that it always returns false.
*   (667476) - iOS/IL2CPP: Implement MethodBase.GetMethodFromHandle with two arguments for a non-generic type.
*   (670763) - iOS/IL2CPP: Implemented Assembly.GetName().
*   (670763) - iOS/IL2CPP: Implemented marshaling support for explicit struct layouts.
*   (670763) - iOS/IL2CPP: Implemented missing Marshal.PtrToStructure overload which takes object reference.
*   (675328) - iOS/IL2CPP: Improved support for MakeGenericMethod.
*   (none) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed conversion error in obscure edge case of method overrides through metadata and signature.
*   (674680), (674310) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed the problem with shift operators, resulting in problems with MD5 calculation and crypto, amongst other things.
*   (672704) - iOS/IL2CPP: Fixed code generation for delegates having parameters tagged with the Out attribute.
*   ([669987](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-gzipinputstream-throws-the-exception)) - iOS/IL2CPP: Handle IL code which uses one local variable as an array index more than once, with different values.
*   (673787) - iOS/IL2CPP: Handle NULL const string values.
*   (671597) - iOS/IL2CPP: Handle out and ref marshaling of a delegate with a struct that has no instance fields.
*   (670020) - iOS/IL2CPP: Implemented the use of SizeParamIndex for marshaling.
*   (671992), (667779) - iOS/IL2CPP: iOS/IL2CPP: Implemented marshaling of the System.Runtime.InteropServices.HandleRef type.
*   (676597) - Linux: Fixed the issue which was causing crash with native plugins using STL types.
*   (none) - Mono compiler: Fixed issue with incorrect IL being generated in some cases for iterator finally blocks.
*   (none) - Oculus: Plugin initialize fixed when GfxDevice had not been Initialized yet.
*   ([669387](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/force-opengl-editor-crashes-on-trying-to-enable-directx11)) - OpenGL: Fixed crash with -force-opengl in Windows Editor when trying to enable DirectX 11 via player settings.
*   ([676079](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/surfaceeffector2d-prevents-other-forces-from-being-applied-such-as-to-move-away-from-the-surface)) - Physics 2D: Added 'forceScale' property to SurfaceEffector2D to allow scaling of the impulse force used.
*   ([667289](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-effector-disabled-platform-effector-still-works)) - Physics 2D: Disabled PlatformEffector2D component now fully disables contact processing.
*   (663596) - Physics 2D: Fixed console warning of 'm\_Effector == effector' when removing an effector inside a prefab.
*   (661823) - Physics 2D: Fixed PlatformEffector2D so that when stopping inside a collider it doesn't cause a collision for 'one-way'.
*   (663562) - Physics 2D: Fixed incorrect double-quote usage in tool-tip for PlatformEffector2D property 'Side Angle Variance'.
*   ([673261](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-a-joint-breaks-from-an-impact-the-onjointbreak-force-parameter-is-always-equal-to-a-static-value-of-1-dot-065353e-plus-09)) - Physics: OnJointBreak callback now has correct breaking force magnitude supplied as a parameter.
*   ([675058](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gpuusage-gpu-profiler-spammes-log-and-makes-editor-unusable-after-stopping-the-recording)) - Profiler: Fixed editor slowdown if GPU profiler was enabled when the profiler was stopped or closed
*   (674024) - Samsung TV: Fixed MissingMethodException being thrown when a scene was played that used STV specific APIs.
*   (676550) - Samsung TV: Fixed UEP signing for 2015 TVs.
*   ([676192](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/application-dot-logmessagereceivedthreaded-doesnt-appear-to-log-any-messages)) - Scripting: Fixed Application.logMessageReceivedThreaded not being called in main thread.
*   ([675624](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-only-libraries-are-not-referenced-in-md-solution)) - Scripting: Fixed VS / MonoDevelopment project synchronization when "Editor" was the only platform selected in plugins settings.
*   (675700) - Stripping: Fixed issue, which was making stripping completely disabled for Mono scripting backend.
*   (none) - Terrain: Base map generation in Linear rendering mode is now done in linear space.
*   (673713) - Terrain: Fixed visual inconsistency when rendering with base pass.
*   ([669893](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/child-canvas-doesnt-override-pixel-perfect)), ([654565](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pixel-perfect-inheritance-has-wrong-behaviour-on-child-canvas)) - UI: Fixed overriding/inheriting of pixel perfect status in child canvases.
*   (none) - Version Control: Set correct changeset description when renaming a changeset.
*   (none) - Version Control: Use saved changeset description when submitting.
*   (676070) - WebGL: Fixed deleting characters in text fields.
*   ([669967](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-fullscreen-doesnt-revert-ro-original-resolution-on-exit)) - WebGL: Fixed reverting to proper window size when getting out of fullscreen mode.
*   (none) - WebGL: Fixed shift-arrow-key in text fields.
*   (675095) - WebGL: Fixed WWW.audioClip.
*   (none) - Windows Standalone: Now, -parentHWND works once again.
*   (673322) - Xbox One: Lightmap files are now included in the package manifest.  They are included as a part of the launch chunk. 

Choose the appropriate installer following the appropriate links. Also included below are the md5sum and file size in order to verify the full installers have been downloaded correctly. If your installer doesn’t work or reports errors it is possible that your installer is incomplete.

*   Revision: b38b89c951b3
*   [UnityDownloadAssistant-5.0.0p1.dmg](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/UnityDownloadAssistant-5.0.0p1.dmg) (md5sum: 0a350570d24aa3594fb4df2d45904da7) (Size 2483332 bytes)
*   [UnityDownloadAssistant-5.0.0p1.exe](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/UnityDownloadAssistant-5.0.0p1.exe) (md5sum: e2cf0825284cdb4fb2f00f0e1fb061e7 ) (Size: 653232 bytes)
*   [UnitySetup64-5.0.0p1.exe](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/Windows64EditorInstaller/UnitySetup64-5.0.0p1.exe) (md5sum: e08fbe5bb49f5c11f8a096e49b0a1b61) (Size:1205736320 bytes)
*   [UnitySetup32-5.0.0p1.exe](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/Windows32EditorInstaller/UnitySetup32-5.0.0p1.exe) (md5sum: 644cc02d1de94397f94c74c365b03c42) Size: 1197851832 bytes)
*   [UnityWebPlayerDevelopment-5.0.0p1.exe](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/WindowsDevelopmentWebPlayerInstaller/UnityWebPlayerDevelopment-5.0.0p1.exe) (md5sum: 76a1c82dfdbef014100500e90bdafb7c) (Size: 7202800 bytes)
*   [UnityStandardAssetsSetup-5.0.0p1.exe](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/WindowsStandardAssetsInstaller/UnityStandardAssetsSetup-5.0.0p1.exe) (md5sum: 1992c7ea533f7752451d0e1d59f9198d) (Size: 208664336 bytes)
*   [UnityExampleProjectSetup-5.0.0p1.exe](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/WindowsExampleProjectInstaller/UnityExampleProjectSetup-5.0.0p1.exe) (md5sum: a786521924768aebb76fda0e0c910516 ) (Size: 289194456 bytes)
*   [Unity-5.0.0p1.pkg](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/MacEditorInstaller/Unity-5.0.0p1.pkg) (md5sum: fb74008473b8afc5f7b29f1a00f59f0d) (Size: 767431207 bytes)
*   [WebPlayer-5.0.0p1.pkg](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/MacWebPlayerInstaller/WebPlayer-5.0.0p1.pkg) (md5sum: 6c0cec2443234afab92984ed3d74260e ) (Size: 2774967 bytes)
*   [StandardAssets-5.0.0p1.pkg](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/MacStandardAssetsInstaller/StandardAssets-5.0.0p1.pkg) (md5sum: 943465d8ca7eae66f5d074692d54b039 ) (Size: 208159263 bytes)
*   [Examples-5.0.0p1.pkg](https://beta.unity3d.com/download/b38b89c951b3/MacExampleProjectInstaller/Examples-5.0.0p1.pkg) (md5sum: b12a56fd29185e35c8bcfcbf81526303) (Size 347276235 bytes)