### Fixes

*   2D: Disabled Tilemap Focus filter when closing Tile Palette window if enabled. ([1098821](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemap-focus-filter-remains-active-in-scene-view-after-closing-the-tile-palette-window-with-focus-on-set-to-tilemap-or-grid), 1116141)
    
*   2D: Fixed crash on Tilemap::CompressBounds when calling Tilemap.CompressBounds() on corrupted tilemap. ([1090111](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tilemap-compressbounds-when-calling-tilemap-dot-compressbounds-on-corrupted-tilemap), 1116143)
    
*   2D: Fixed crash on Tilemap::CopyTileDataToTile<0> when importing corrupted Tilemap prefab. (1116144)
    
*   2D: Fixed crash on TilemapRenderer when rendering with a Material that is destroyed. (1116145)
    
*   2D: Fixed current Active Tilemap selection unable to be deselected when a new GameObject is instantiated on the scene. (1116150)
    
*   2D: Fixed for missing Tiles being created when dragging a spritesheet with empty initial columns or rows into Tile Palette. ([1103034](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/missing-tiles-when-dragging-sprite-sheet-into-tile-palette), 1116146)
    
*   2D: Fixed Tilemap.SwapTiles when swapping Tiles to other Tiles that already exist on the Tilemap. ([1108368](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-tilemap-tilemap-dot-swaptile-swapping-tiles-to-empty), 1116147)
    
*   Analytics: Removed all XR dependencies on Analytics and made all events support events. ([1092403](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/disabling-unity-analytics-package-throws-compilation-errors-when-project-is-using-unityengine-dot-xr-namespace))
    
*   Android: Add '-mstackrealign' compile option for android x86 to fix the crash on some x86 devices. ([1058255](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-player-crashes-on-some-specific-devices-with-x86-architecture-and-os-version-around-4-dot-4~4-dot-5))
    
*   Android: Fixed for Android Dynamic feature crashes the application when running the build via Android Studio. (1102209)
    
*   Asset Pipeline: Fixed Asset Bundles not able to load scenes if the scene had a period in its name. ([1022819](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cant-load-a-scene-from-asset-bundle-if-scene-has-a-period-in-the-name), 1115505)
    
*   Build Pipeline: Fixed crash when loading compressed meshes out of asset bundles. (1115334)
    
*   Editor: Fixed textures being imported with the platform-specific format when the platform override property is false. (1104345)
    
*   Graphics: Fixed Rendering a scene with a SpriteRenderer with Graphics Jobs on causes a JobTempAlloc memory leak. (1100859)
    
*   IL2CPP: Allow stack sizes for new threads to be set explicitly larger than 64K with the .NET 4.x Equivalent scripting runtime. (1104843)
    
*   IL2CPP: Fixed IL2CPP compiler configuration setting missing from some platforms player settings (like WebGL). (1099894)
    
*   IL2CPP: Updated the zlib implementation to correct the following security issues: CVE-2016-9840, CVE-2016-9841,CVE-2016-9842, CVE-2016-9843.
    
*   iOS: Fixed iOS Frameworks location is ignored when building Xcode project. (1108970)
    
*   Linux: Fixed GPU skinning. (1117706)
    
*   Linux: Fixed issue where SetResolution cannot programmatically resize Linux player after window has been maximized. ([1099286](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setresolution-fullscreen-parameter-does-not-work-on-linux), 1115831)
    
*   Linux: Fixed the graphical corruption in the framebuffer for various games on Nvidia Linux. ([1108929](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-nvidia-graphical-corruption-in-many-games-possible-regression), 1111474)
    
*   Linux: Fixed using libstdc++ in native plugins crashing (2018.3 no longer links with libstdc++ statically). (1115024)
    
*   Multiplayer: Fixed exception thrown when clicking Lan Client on WebGL build. ([860733](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/networkmanagerhud-uncaught-typeerror-cannot-read-property-id-of-null-thrown-when-clicking-lan-client-on-webgl-build))
    
*   Particles: Fixed JobTempAlloc memory leaks in the Particle System Trails Module on WebGL. (1114502)
    
*   Physics: Added a message with a reference to the Rigidbody component when the CCD mode is incompatible with the kinematic setting. (1064491)
    
*   Physics: Fixed crash due to auto-sync-transforms during Rigidbody2D.Cast query when changing transform prior to query being executed. ([1099642](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/physicsquery2d-collidercastall-crash-when-calling-rigidbody2d-dot-cast))
    
*   Physics: Fixed crash due to multi-scene physics when destroying an object during a 2D collision/trigger callback. (1110897)
    
*   Plugins: Fixed an issue where CPU information was respected on non-native libs for android plugins. Since users could potentially change these CPU properties on a Plugin Importer via PluginImporter.SetPlatformData() we should eliminate the possibility of problems occurring due to wrongful modifications of the plugin importer's properties. ([1076868](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-plugin-stored-in-universal-aar-is-not-copied-to-apk-properly))
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed crash when applying changes from Prefab Instance to asset, when assets contains disconnected nested prefabs. (1104595)
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed crash when creating a Prefab Asset in Awake when entering Play Mode. ([1085577](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getmanagerfromcontext-pointer-to-object-of-manager-lightmapsettings-is-null-table-index-22-when-entering-play-mode), 1115008)
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed crash when undo'ing after applying a disconnected prefab. (1110703)
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed crash when using Undo wrongly on Prefab asset objects. (1099646)
    
*   Prefabs: Fixed MonoBehaviour cannot be dragged to the Inspector after ParticleSystem on a Prefab Instance (1110704)
    
*   Scripting: Fixed an issue with static members such as generic classes with their argument being an array type not being reported the memory snapshot API. ([984330](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/packedmemorysnapshot-type-contains-staticfieldbytes-but-has-no-static-field))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed issue where processing SynchronizationContext tasks would allocate. ([1114295](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unitysynchronizationcontext-dot-executetasks-causes-per-frame-gc-alloc))
    
*   Scripting: Fixed random crash in Asset GC. (1091878)
    
*   XR: Fixed an issue with a black screen occuring after resuming from pause on some Oculus devices. ([1115358](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/oculus-black-screen-when-resume-from-sleeping-mode-on-quest))
    

Changeset: 1d952368ca3a