5.4.0b20 Release Notes (Delta since b19)
----------------------------------------

### Known Issues

*   [\[788312\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/singlepassstereo-deffered-rendering-plus-spot-and-point-lights-stereo-discrepency) \[SinglePassStereo\] Deferred rendering + spot and point lights stereo discrepancy
*   [\[780112\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2drectmask-after-changing-state-of-2drectmask-scene-has-to-be-reloaded-for-changes-to-take-an-effect) 2D: After changing state of 2DRectMask, Scene has to be reloaded for changes to take an effect
*   [\[776827\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-shader-fails-in-opengles-3-dot-0-on-adreno-306-when-comparing-fragment-position-with-uniform) Android: Shader fails in OpenGLES 3.0 on Adreno 306 when comparing fragment position with uniform.
*   [\[800888\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameview-fixedresolution-editor-crashes-after-overflowing-both-width-and-height-fields-of-game-view-resolution-window) Editor: Editor crashes after overflowing both Width and Height fields of Game view resolution window
*   [\[800900\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-doesnt-repaint-when-services-window-is-docked-next-to-the-inspector) Editor: Editor doesn't repaint when Services window is docked next to the Inspector
*   [\[688985\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/baked-lighting-data-lost-after-rebake-in-copied-scene) GI: Copying a scene loses the baked lighting.
*   Graphics: In deferred rendering, lightmapped objects affected by mixed-mode lights fallback to forward rendering.
*   [\[790555\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-with-gpus-returnguiltyforhardwarerestart-when-running-gles2-slash-3-on-a9-and-a9x-devices) iOS: Crash with gpus\_ReturnGuiltyForHardwareRestart when running GLES2/3 on A9 & A9X devices. Next iOS update is expected to fix this.
*   [\[761024\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-metal-significant-performance-degradation-in-5-dot-4-wit-some-custom-shaders) iOS: \[Metal\] Performance degradation in 5.4 with some custom shaders.
*   [\[762371\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-hangs-on-scenemanager-dot-unloadscene) Scene Management: SceneManager.UnloadScene hangs if called from a physics trigger. Workaround is to defer unload. This will not be addressed in 5.4.
*   VR: In-development cinematic Image Effects (Bitbucket project) do not currently work with single-pass rendering. This will be addressed independently of the 5.4 release schedule.
*   [\[778119\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vr-single-pass-stereo-image-effects-plus-single-pass-equals-double-the-rendering) VR: Single-pass rendering: The following Standard Asset Image Effects do not currently work reliably: CameraMotionBlur, ScreenSpaceAmbientObscurance. A fix is being developed.
*   [\[778119\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vr-single-pass-stereo-image-effects-plus-single-pass-equals-double-the-rendering) VR: Single-pass rendering: The following Standard Asset Image Effects partially work: Blur, CreaseShading, DepthOfField, DepthOfFieldDeprecated, GlobalFog, NoiseAndGrain, ScreenSpaceAmbientOcclusion, Tonemapping. A fix is being developed.
*   \[777766\] VR: Splash screen and single pass rendering have issues.
*   [\[779207\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-for-textmesh-gameobjects-no-longer-works-in-vr) VR: Text Mesh shaders and single pass rendering do not work. Manually including the shader will workaround the problem.
*   [\[747545\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/opengl-windows-unity-crashes-or-hangs-with-no-respond-on-moving-and-undocking-tabs) Windows: \[OpenGL\] Unity crashes or hangs with no response on moving and undocking tabs.
*   [\[776787\]](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terraindata-functions-dont-work-when-building-for-uwp) Windows Store: Unity APIs which take multi-dimensional arrays as parameters (e.g. TerrainData.SetHeights) do not work on UWP in configurations (e.g. Master config) in which .NET Native compilation is enabled. The bug has been logged with Microsoft.

### Improvements

*   Audio: Added ability to transition AudioMixer snapshots by scaled and unscaled time.
*   Audio: Moved Preload Audio Data to the platform-specific settings section. The previous location was confusing as it was shown grayed-out in the inspector with a checkmark that depended on all overrides.
*   Audio: SystemInfo now includes supportsAudio info.
*   Particles: Added Undo support when auto re-parenting sub-emitters.

### Fixes

*   [\[792351\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-unknown-event-structure-0-is-spammed-in-amazon-kindle-fires-5th-gen-development-build-logs-non-stop) Android: Fixed an issue where Unity would emit "Unknown event structure (0)" to the log several times per second.
*   \[782248\] Audio: AudioSource: Fixed issue whereby Doppler Level didn't work when used with custom spatializer plugins.
*   [\[772946\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-component-effect-appears-disabled-on-play-and-gets-enabled-after-we-pause-and-play-again) Audio: Fixed case of component effect appearing disabled on play and getting enabled again after we pause and play.
*   \[763036\] Audio: Fixed case of Unity crashing when the Disable Audio option was selected in project settings.
*   [\[784887\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-platform-memmove$variant$haswell-when-disabling-component-which-uses-onaudiofilterread) Audio: Fixed crash when disabling Component which uses OnAudioFilterRead.
*   Audio: Fixed handling of default DSP buffer size. Previously, once the buffer size was changed to something other than Default latency, changing it back to Default latency had no effect.
*   \[781566\] Audio: Fixed issue where AudioListener with 2 custom scripts crashed when reinitializing the sound system.
*   \[775328\] Audio: Fixed issue where the Audio Lowpass Frequency curve moved in the wrong direction in the AudioSource curve view.
*   \[771825\] Audio: Fixed issue whereby adding an effect in the mixer with bypass effects enabled didn't rechain the component effect back properly.
*   Audio: Fixed issue whereby the memory profiler did not report AudioClip memory correctly. The memory allocated by AudioClips was wrongly accumulated under AudioManager.
*   [\[792497\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-if-more-than-65535-game-objects-on-exiting-playmode-slash-build) Core: Fixed a crash when more that 65535 identically named objects were created.
*   [\[771132\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trying-to-run-project-using-unityremote) Editor: Fixed a crash when playing a scene with an iOS device connected as a Unity Remote.
*   [\[588531\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-fails-to-update-if-directory-is-deleted) Editor: Fixed an issue where deleted folders are recreated if the meta file is still present in non-source control serialisation modes.
*   [\[769033, 769504\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/checkdisalowallocation-fatal-error-if-exiting-play-mode-when-object-with-missing-script-is-selected-in-hierarchy) Editor: Fixed crash when entering or exiting play mode when a GameObject with a missing script reference is present.
*   \[796682\] Editor: Updated default license and activation host URL for staging and dev environments.
*   [\[768232\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mesh-data-in-asset-bundle-gets-corrupted) Graphics: Fixed an issue where dynamic batching could produce corrupted geometry when vertex components are compressed.
*   [\[778659\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textmesh-normals-and-dynamic-batching-issue) Graphics: Fixed incorrect normal/tangent generation when dynamic batching is used on a rotated object without a normal/tangent stream i.e. a rotated TextMesh object.
*   [\[780867\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-rendering-order-changes-when-particles-die) Particles: Fixed sorting issue when using local space particles.
*   [\[754270\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particlesystem-dot-pause-resets-start-delay) Particles: Start delay is now only applied when the system time is 0.
*   \[766769\] Runtime: Fix to reduce the overhead incurred by SetSiblingIndex calling OnTransformParentChanged.
*   [\[790491\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/substances-importing-substance-from-asset-store-and-adding-it-to-go-throws-multiple-errors) Substance: Fixed error when loading package file containing an old version of a substance file.
*   [\[778027\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/safari-texture-error-with-9-slicing) WebGL: Fixed anisotropic filtering in Safari.
*   [\[759492\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-autoconnecting-project-to-profiler-locks-up-browser-periodically) WebGL: Fixed browser lock-up when profiling.
*   [\[781565\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-errors-in-webgl-build-invalid-enum-blendequationseparate-invalid-mode) WebGL: Fixed case of blendEquationSeparate shader errors being thrown.
*   \[790931, 789543\] WebGL: Fixed Command key input issues on OS X.
*   \[792856\] WebGL: Fixed error message about loading WebGL content from file:// URLs in browsers that don't support this.
*   WebGL: Fixed float RenderTextures in WebGL 2.0 in Chrome.
*   \[794353\] WebGL: Fixed floating point precision errors, which could result in a variety of errors during play.
*   [\[782587\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-realtime-lights-look-different-than-in-editor) WebGL: Fixed point-light rendering on Windows when deferred rendering is enabled.
*   [\[759286\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-no-lighting-from-spotlight-with-deferred-rendering-path) WebGL: Fixed spot-light rendering on Windows when deferred rendering is enabled.

The following are changes and fixes to 5.4.0 features and regressions...
------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Fixes

*   [\[789063\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/polygon-multiple-sprite-loses-its-material-when-entering-play-mode) 2D: Fixed case of Sprites losing materials when entering play mode.
*   [\[789840\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-message-when-accessing-the-main-asset) Asset Bundles: Fixed case of "AssetBundle doesn't have main asset!" error message being thrown when accessing the main asset.
*   [\[784876\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crunched-baking-lightmap-crashes-at-crnd-crn-unpacker-unpack-dxt5-when-non-opaque-material-uses-crunched-texture) Asset Loading: Fixed crash that could occur while decompressing crunched textures.
*   Audio: Fixed issue whereby streaming sounds didn't start playing when the number of sounds exceeded the number of real voices (specified in audio project settings).
*   [\[747347\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/some-shader-combinations-dont-reload-texture-assets-when-reference-is-being-used) Documentation: Updated documentation for Resources.UnloadAsset to document the 5.x behaviour which is different to 4.6 behaviour.
*   \[763096\] Editor: Fixed shortcuts issues and CEF interaction issues.
*   IAP: Fixed a NullReferenceException when stores inform Unity IAP of purchase events without providing metadata for the purchased product.
*   [\[783219\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lod-code-supposed-to-be-unreachable-error-in-the-console) LOD: Fixed unreachable code warnings when distance == selection.maxDistance.
*   [\[489509\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/plane-collision-causes-erratic-behaviour-in-editor-mode) Particles: Fixed case of collisions not being calculated between editor updates.
*   [\[772199\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-meshes-are-not-scaled-at-all-on-world-simulation-space) Particles: Fixed case of mesh particles not being scaled when in world space.
*   \[789839\] Windows Store: Added support for small logo target sizes in WSA 8.1.
*   [\[792618\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-on-universal-10-screen-dot-orientation-returns-incorrect-orientation-state-on-startup) Windows Store: Fixed case of Screen.orientation sometimes reporting incorrect value on startup.
*   \[775702\] Windows Store: Fixed generics related issue, that would sometime result in an Access Reduction exception.
*   Windows Store: Restored the ability to call most Tile methods from other threads (as was possible before Unity 5.0).

* * *

5.4.0b20 Release Notes (Full)
-----------------------------

### Features

*   Asset Import: Importing is now supported for models with more than 100,000 objects.
*   DX12: Added support for multi-display rendering.
*   Editor: Optional "strict mode" when building projects and AssetBundles, which will fail the build if any errors (even non-fatal ones) are reported during the build process.
*   GI: Light Probe Proxy Volumes  
    This component allows using more than one light probe sample for large dynamic objects (think large particle systems or important characters). This will sample probes into a 3D texture and use that in the shader.
    *   Requires shader model 4 (DX11+/PS4/XB1/GLCore).
*   GI: Occlusion of the strongest mixed mode light is now stored per light probe.
*   Graphics: Added ImageEffectAllowedInSceneView attribute for Image Effects. This will copy the Image Effect from the main camera onto the Scene View camera. This can be enabled / disabled in the Scene View Effects menu.
*   Graphics: Added motion vector support:
    *   Requires RG16 texture support.
    *   Motion vectors track the screen space position of an object from one frame to the next, and can be used for post process effects.
    *   See the API docs for Renderer.motionVectors, Camera.depthTextureMode, SkinnedMeshRenderer.skinnedMotionVectors, PassType.MotionVectors, and DepthTextureMode.MotionVector.
*   Graphics: Basic GPU Instancing Support
    *   Use GPU instancing to draw a large amount of identical geometries with very few draw calls.
    *   Works with MeshRenderers that use the same material and the same mesh.
    *   Only needs a few changes to your shader to enable it for instancing. Supports both custom vertex/fragment shader and surface shader.
    *   Set per-instance shader properties from script via MaterialPropertyBlock.
    *   Supports Graphics.DrawMesh command.
    *   Supports Windows DX11/DX12 with SM 4.0 and up, OpenGL 4.1 and up on Windows/OSX/Linux.
*   Graphics: Fast texture copies via Graphics.CopyTexture.
*   Graphics: Graphics jobs can now be enabled (see Player Settings) for a potential performance boost. Currently in experimental status due to unknown project-dependent side effects.
*   Graphics: Texture Array support; seeTexture2DArray class.
*   IAP: Added support for fetching IAP products incrementally in batches.
    *   FetchAdditionalProducts method added to IStoreController.
*   IAP: Cloud catalog support:A 'useCloudCatalog' boolean has been added to UnityEngine.Purchasing.ConfigurationBuilder. When set, Unity IAP will fetch your catalog of products for sale from the Unity cloud. Catalog is configured via the Unity Analytics dashboard.
*   iOS: Added support for ODR initial install tags.
*   iOS: Option for custom URL schemes added to Player Settings.
*   Kernel: The transform component has been rewritten using SIMD and a cache-friendly data layout, so the code is now simpler and faster. As a result, Transform.Setparent for large hieararchies can also be more expensive, since all data for one hierarchy will always be tightly packed together.
*   OSX: Added Editor-enabled retina support (text and some icons only).
*   Particles: New Trigger Module, including:
    *   A script callback when particles touch a predefined list of collision shapes.
    *   Ability to modify/kill particles that are intersecting the collision shapes.
*   Particles: Particle width, height and depth (for Mesh particles) can now be defined independently from each other.
*   Physics: New functions implemented: Physics.OverlapCapsule & Physics.OverlapCapsuleNonAlloc.
*   Physics: Overlap recovery, used to de-penetrate CharacterControllers from static objects when an overlap is detected. When activated, the CharacterController module will automatically try to resolve the penetration, and move the CharacterController to a safe place where it does not overlap other objects anymore.
*   Physics: Running the PhysX simulation step can now be skipped if not required by Rigidbodies or WheelColliders.
*   Physics: The ContactPoint.separation has been exposed.
*   Shaders: Uniform array support:
    *   Uniform arrays can be set by new array APIs on MaterialPropertyBlock.
    *   The size of an array is lifted to 1023.
    *   The old way of setting array elements by using number-suffixed names is deprecated.
*   Substance: ProceduralMaterials are now supported at runtime on Windows Store/Phone platforms.
*   VR: Added support for Native Spatializer Plugins for VR. Oculus Spatializer included with the support.
*   VR: Native OpenVR support added:
    *   Note that native OpenVR support renders with an off-center asymmetric projection matrix. This means that any shaders which relied on fov / aspect may not work correctly.
*   VR: Optimized Single-Pass Stereo Rendering available in Player Settings.
*   VR: VR Focus and ShouldQuit Support: -Application Focus is now controlled by respective VR SDK when Virtual Reality Support is enabled. -Application will quit if the respective VR SDK tells the app to quit when Virtual Reality Support is enabled
*   VR: VR multi-device support:
    *   PlayerSettings: When the Virtual Reality Supported checkbox is checked, a prioritized list is shown allowing devs to choose which VR SDKs their game supports. (Similar to the Graphics API selection dialog)
    *   VR SDK list is per build-target.
    *   Dependencies (such as DLLs) will be copied to the build for every SDK in the list.
    *   At startup, Unity will go down the list and try to initialize each device. If any fail to initialize (for example, if the headset is not connected), Unity will move on to the next. If all fail, Unity won’t enter VR mode.
    *   PlayerSettings: Deprecated PlayerSettings stereoscopic 3D checkbox. This goes through the same subsystem as the VR devices, so a non-headmounted stereoscopic driver is one of the possible devices on supporting platforms.
    *   VR API: Deprecated VRDeviceType enum and VRSettings.loadedDevice. This is replaced with VRSettings.loadedDeviceName and VRSettings.LoadDeviceByName().
    *   VR API: Added the ability to get a list of supported SDKs. Readonly: string\[\] VRSettings.supportedDevices.
*   Web: GamePerf service integration. You can now track your exceptions from the wild by enabling this in the Services window.
*   Web: WebPlayer support has been removed, and the default player is now the platform desktop being run on for the Editor. Therefore desktop platform installation choices are no longer available for their respective editors.
*   Windows: Added speech recognition APIs under UnityEngine.Windows.Speech. These APIs are supported on all Windows platforms as long as they're running on Windows 10: Windows Editor, Windows Standalone and Windows Store.
*   Windows: Added support for G-Sync and FreeSync on Windows 10 on DirectX 11 (for the Windows Store player only) and DirectX 12 (for both the standalone player and the Windows Store player).
*   Windows: Windows Standalone player now can be run in Low Integrity Mode by passing -runWithLowIntegritylevel command line argument.
*   Windows Store: Command line argument -dontConnectAcceleratorEvent can now be added to disable accelerator event-based input. This disables support for some keys in Unity (like F10, Shift), but fixes issue with duplicate characters in some XAML controls.
*   Windows Store: Realtime global illumination now works when using Windows 10 SDK.
*   Windows Store: UnityWebRequest now supported for all SDKs.

### Backwards Compatibility Breaking Changes

*   Android: WebCam no longer works on Gingerbread devices.
*   Deployment Management: Any errors logged during the build process will now cause the build to fail. This includes errors that previously allowed the build to succeed anyway, such as shader compilation failures.
*   DX12: Introduced new native plugin interface IUnityGraphicsD3D12v2 . The old interface will not function anymore due to differences in internal graphics job submission.
*   Editor: Deprecated UnityEditor.ShaderUtil.ShaderPropertyTexDim; users should now use Texture.dimension.
*   GI: Deprecated Light.actuallyLightmapped; users should now use Light.isBaked and Light.bakedIndex instead. Baked Light now has unique index, instead of the flag "actuallyLightmapped"
*   Graphics: Deprecated Material(String) constructor further. This will now always create a material with the error shader and print an error, in both Editor and player. It will be completely removed in a future Unity version.
*   Physics: Made changes to avoid Physics transform drift by not sending redundant Transform updates.
*   Physics: Physics Meshes are now rejected if they contain invalid (non-finite) vertices.
*   Playables: Refactored API so that Playables are structs instead of classes, making the API allocation-less in C#.
*   Scripting: Added two new script errors in the editor for catching calls to the Unity API during serialization. See "Scripting Serialization" page in the manual for more details.
*   Scripting: UnityEngine.Object.GetInstanceID() is no longer thread safe (change made to facilitate a memory optimization).
*   Web: Promoted WebRequest interface from UnityEngine.Experimental.Networking to UnityEngine.Networking. Unity 5.2 and 5.3 projects that use UnityWebRequest will need to be updated.

### Changes

*   Android: Assets - Disabled texture streaming for Android.
*   Android: Deprecated UnityPlayerNativeActivity and UnityPlayerProxyActivity; these will now print warnings to the logcat if in use.
*   Android: Removed native activity implementation. An activity with the same name based on a regular activity is still in place for backwards compatibility reasons.
*   Audio: Streamed audio clips are no longer preloaded. This is done to reduce the number of open file handles in scenes referencing a large number of streamed clips. The behaviour is not affected except for a slight increase in playback latency.
*   Audio: Updated FMOD to 4.44.56.
*   DX12: Disabled client/worker mode as a preparation step for pure threading (-force-gfx-mt now does nothing for DX12).
*   DX12: Enabled GPU profiler in single-threaded mode (-force-gfx-direct).
*   Editor: Editor will now trigger a warning when opening a project from any version not matching the project's matching last version string saved in information. This includes small version changes such as 5.4.0b1 to 5.4.0b2, or 5.4.0f3 to 5.4.0p1.
*   Graphics: Default Camera's background clear color now has 0 alpha, instead of 5/255 alpha.
*   Particles: Added particle radius parameter for world collisions.
*   Physics: API changes:
    *   Renamed Cloth.useContinuousCollision to Cloth.enableContinuousCollision, and Cloth.solverFrequency to Cloth.clothSolverFrequency.
    *   Exposed Cloth.enableTethers.
*   Physics: Fixed Character Controller Physics causing capsule to be thrown in the air when exiting another collider.
*   Physics: Renamed Physics.solverIterationCount to Physics.defaultSolverIterations, and Rigidbody.solverIterationCount to Rigidbody.solverIterations.
*   Samsung TV: Added Ignore BG Alpha Clear checkbox to Resolution section of Samsung TV player settings. This will disable the clearing of the alpha value for the background fill, allowing for blending between Unity's render layer and the layer behind.
*   Shaders: Moved internal shader for computing screenspace cascaded shadows into Graphics Settings. If you were overriding it before by just dropping it into the project, you now need the custom one via Graphics Settings.
*   Shaders: Removed support for EXT\_shadow\_samplers on non-iOS OpenGL ES 2.0 platform.
*   Terrain: Terrain objects created in the Scene will now be properly renamed (in the same way as GameObjects) to avoid using the same name.
*   Terrain: When different TerrainData are used for Terrain and TerrainCollider components on the same GameObject, a warning message will be shown with a button to fix the situation.
*   UI: Switched component menu name for RectMask2D to match class name.

### Improvements

*   Analytics: Added missing fields to the hwstats report.
*   Android: Added template for ProGuard obfuscation on exported project.
*   Android: Application name now supports non-alphanumeric characters and spaces.
*   Android: Audio - Automatic OpenSL output has been updated to check the native device params and not use OpenSL if they look bad (fixes audio issues on buggy devices).
*   Android: Buildpipe: Updated SDK tools requirements for the Editor.
*   Android: Converted some fatal error messages to be presented on-screen rather than printed to the logcat.
*   Android: Editor: Added Marshmallow to the list of APIs.
*   Android: Enhanced robustness of Location input.
*   Android: IL2CPP - Will now require Android NDK x64 on x64 Windows Editor instead of the 32-bit NDK.
*   Android: SoftInput: Got rid of hardcoded text color, switched to Light theme.
*   Android: Symbols for release libraries are now available in PlaybackEngines/AndroidPlayer/Variations/\*/Release/Symbols.
*   Android/IL2CPP: Full debug version of IL2CPP libraries are now stored in Temp/StagingArea/Il2Cpp/Native.
*   Android/IL2CPP: Stripping of symbols and debug info is now enabled by default. Development builds still have symbols, which makes for a slightly larger binary.
*   Animation: Improved Animation event performance for repeat calls to the same events on components.
*   Audio: Added virtualization of audio effects. For audio sources that are virtual because they have been culled due to low audibility or priority, attached effect components or spatializers are now also bypassed in order to save CPU use. The new behaviour is on by default, but can be turned off in the audio project settings.
*   Audio: Audio clip waveform preview now displays the actual format used for compression when the default format isn’t available on a certain platform.
*   Audio: Fixed audio clip waveform preview rendering sync issues after import, and improved the way the waveforms are being rendered to be more dynamic and reveal more detail.
*   Cache Server: Improved the cache server so that it can properly handle scenarios when assets with missing references are being read.
*   Cluster Rendering: Improvements to the cluster networking, including stability improvements while using cluster input.
*   Compute: Added DispatchIndirect function (similar to DrawProceduralIndirect; dispatches compute shader with parameters sourced from ComputeBuffer).
*   Compute: API of hidden counters on ComputeBuffers can now be optionally reset when bound, and can be explicitly set via SetCounterValue.
*   Compute: Exposed ComputeShader.GetKernelThreadGroupSizes to query compute thread group sizes.
*   Compute: Improved error handling for compute shaders.
*   Core: Added more profiling information to the PersistentManager.
*   Core: Improved job execution. Spawn worker threads are now based on the number of logical processors instead of physical cores.
*   Documentation: Improved the docs for Graphics.DrawMesh.
*   DX12: Introduced -force-d3d12-stablepowerstate command line parameter. Use it when profiling the GPU.
*   Editor: Added ability to hide the tetrahedron wireframe while editing light probe group.
*   Editor: Added cancel button to "Opening Visual Studio" progress dialog.
*   Editor: Added edit mode for light probe group to avoid accidental selection changes.
*   Editor: Fixed the title of the Script Execution Order inspector.
*   Editor: In Play Mode the DontDestroyOnLoad Scene will now only be shown if it has GameObjects.
*   Editor: Scene headers are now always shown in the Hierarchy to prevent confusion when loading and unloading Scenes in Play Mode. This also allows user to see which Scene is loaded in OSX fullscreen mode.
*   GI: Added de-noising filter to baked final gather.
*   GI: Added Lightmapping.realtimeGI and Lightmapping.bakedGI editor APIs.
*   GI: Atlassing will now correctly generate atlases without wasting space when scaling down objects.
*   GI: BakeEnlightenProbeSetJob results now stored in hashed file to speed up rebaking of light probes.
*   GI: Final Gather no longer recomputes if the result is in the cache.
*   GI: HDR color picker is now used for ambient color, instead of color plus ambient intensity.
*   GI: Improved mixing of realtime and baked shadows: removes shadow from the back-facing geometry, preserves bounce and contribution of other baked lights.
*   GI: Upgraded to Enlighten 3.03.
*   Graphics: A slice of 3D/2DArray can now be set as a render target (Graphics.SetRenderTarget depthSlice argument).
*   Graphics: Added a -window-mode command line argument to override full-screen behaviour. Options: exclusive, borderless.
*   Graphics: Added GL.Flush API.
*   Graphics: Added MaterialPropertyBlock.SetBuffer.
*   Graphics: Added mechanism to tweak some Unity shader defines per-platform per-shader-hardware-tier. Currently it is exposed only to scripts (see UnityEditor.Rendering namespace, specifically UnityEditor.Rendering.PlatformShaderSettings for tweakable settings and UnityEditor.Rendering.EditorGraphicsSettings, for methods to get/set shader settings). Please note that if settings are different for some tiers, shader variants for ALL tiers will be compiled, but duplicates will be still stripped from final build.
*   Graphics: Added TextureDimension enum and Texture.dimension property.
*   Graphics: Added useLightProbes argument to Graphics.DrawMesh (defaults to 'true').
*   Graphics: Ambient Occlusion now has separate sliders for direct and indirect light. The default value is Ambient Occlusion on indirect light only.
*   Graphics: DX12: Optimized texture/mesh loading times by using GPU copy queue.
*   Graphics: Reduced render batch breaking overhead due to LOD fading.
*   Installer: Mac Download Assistant will now write additional logs to ~/Library/Logs/Unity/DownloadAssistant.log.
*   iOS: Added device support for iPhone SE and iPad Pro 9.7".
*   iOS: Added support for new native rendering plugin interface.
*   iOS: Added Xcode 7.3 Build & Run support.
*   iOS: Updated Game Center APIs will be used when present on the target device.
*   OpenGL: Ported existing multidisplay support (Mac/Linux) to OpenGL core.
*   Particles: Added implicit conversion operators when setting MinMaxCurve with constants. This allows "myModule.myCurve = 5.0f;" syntax. Added the same support for MinMaxGradient when using one color.
*   Particles: It is now possible to read MinMaxCurve/MinMaxGradient in script, regardless of what mode it is set to. Previously it would give an error message in some modes.
*   Physics: Added 'OneWayGrouping' property to PlatformEffector2D for group contacts.
*   Physics: Exposed Rigidbody.solverVelocityIterations and Physics.defaultSolverVelocityIterations, to help stabilize bounce behavior on impacts.
*   Physics: Physics job processing is now only done on the high priority job stack, to avoid interference from other systems.
*   Physics: Point editing is now allowed in Inspector for Edge/PolygonCollider2D.
*   Profiler: Added toggle to exclude reference traversal in memory profile.
*   ReflectionProbes: Specular probe convolution has been sped up (about 2x), and is now less noisy, particularly for HDR environments.
*   Scripting: Added new yield instruction: WaitForSecondsRealtime.
*   Scripting: Added UnityEngine.Diagnostics.PlayerConnection. This allows user to send files from player to Editor when profiler is connected.
*   Scripting: Improved SendMessage performance for repeat calls to the same message on components.
*   Scripting: ScriptUpdater now asks whether to automatically update once per project session (i.e if a different project is opened or Unity is restarted).
*   Serialization: Serialization depth limit warning now prints the serialization hierarchy that triggered the warning.
*   Shaders: #pragma targets 3.5, 4.5, 4.6 are accepted.
    *   3.5 - minimum version for texture arrays (DX11 SM4.0+, GL3+, GLES3+, Metal)
    *   4.5 - minimum version for compute shaders (DX11 SM5.0+, GL4.3+, GLES3.1+)
    *   4.6 - minimum version for tessellation (DX11 SM5.0+, GL4.1+, GLES3.1AEP+)
*   Shaders: Added PassFlags=OnlyDirectional pass tag. When used in ForwardBase pass, it makes sure that only ambient, light probe and main directional light information is passed. Non-important lights are not being passed as vertex light constants, nor are put into SH data.
*   Shaders: Added shader #pragma to allow easy/cheap variants of shaders across different tiers of hardware in the same renderer without needing keywords (e.g. iPhone 4 and iPhone 6, within OpenGL ES).
*   Shaders: Extended Standard Shader UI and added new options to disable specular highlights and reflections, and to pack Smoothness into the alpha channel of the Albedo texture.
*   Shaders: Implemented alpha-to-coverage ("AlphaToMask On" in shaders) on OpenGL/ES, DX9, and Metal (previously only on DX11/12).
*   Shaders: Improved game data build times with many complex shaders, especially when they were already compiled before.
*   Shaders: Improved shader translation performance when compiling shaders into OpenGL ES 2.0 & Metal.
*   StackTrace: Deprecated Application.stackTraceLogType; users should now use Application.SetStackTraceLogType/GetStackTraceLogType instead.
*   StackTrace: For StacktraceLogtype.None only the message will now be printed (without file name or line number).
*   StackTrace: Stacktrace log type can now be set in PlayerSettings for various log types.
*   Standalones: Added -hideWindow command line option to launch standalone applications with window hidden.
*   Substance: User now recieves a warning when an input of a BakeAndDiscard ProceduralMaterial is being set at runtime.
*   UI: Added new property AscentCalculationMode to TrueTypeFont importer to control how font ascent value is determined.
*   UI: Added rootCanvas property to Canvas.
*   UI: Align By Geometry now supports vertical alignment. This can be useful for cases where the font ascent/descent info has large uneven spacing.
*   UI: Created an empty RectMask2D editor and modified the selectable one to hide script fields.
*   UI: Improved the way that line spacing affects leading in text generation, to provide more predictable leading when line spacing is less than 1.
*   UI: Made more functions virtual inside Graphics class.
*   Windows Standalone: Added "Copy PDB files" option in the Build Settings window. This way, you can control whether or not to copy debugging files.
*   Windows Store: Added Bluetooth capability to Player Settings.
*   Windows Store: Added UnityEngine.Ping class.
*   Windows Store: Fixed generated Visual Studio solution and Assembly-CSharp\* projects so that they will no longer rebuild needlessly. See upgrade guide for more information.
*   Windows Store: Improved Visual Studio project generation. The solution shouldn't rebuild needlessly anymore; however, users may need to delete the old generated project so it can be regenerated.
*   Windows Store: In Player Settings, visual asset images are now edited using object fields.
*   Windows Store: New implementation for TouchScreenKeyboard on UWP, now supports both XAML and D3D apps as well as IME input. Older implementation can be turned on by passing command line argument -forceTextBoxBasedKeyboard.
*   Windows Store: PDBs will now be included in the installers for "Release" players as well as debug and master players.
*   Windows Store: System.operatingSystem will add '64bit' postfix if target device has 64bit CPU (see more information in Unity Documentation).

### Fixes

*   [\[755263\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-9-slice-no-tooltips-for-size-full-tile-or-threshold-on-the-9-slice-section-of-the-sprite-renderer) 2D: Add tooltips for Size, Full Tile or Threshold on the 9-slice section of the Sprite Renderer.
*   [\[759462, 761416\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getlocalizedstring-is-not-allowed-dot-dot-dot-error-in-console-on-dropping-sprite-into-scene) 2D: Fixed error log 'GetLocalizedString is not allowed...'
*   [\[754282\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spriteeditor-memory-leak-when-applying-changes-to-sprite) 2D: Fixed memory leak when applying changes to sprite.
*   [\[745882\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spritepacker-packing-crunched-sprites-crashes-at-crnlib-crn-comp-append-chunks) 2D: Packing crunched sprites crashes at crnlib::crn\_comp::append\_chunks
*   [\[754385\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/text-is-clipped-in-the-2d-preferences) 2D: Text is clipped in the 2D preferences
*   [\[715370\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmeshagent-dot-haspath-is-false-when-agent-is-crossing-an-offmeshlink) AI: Agent no longer reports no path when moving over OffMeshLink.
*   [\[721123\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/agent-cannot-pass-through-a-passable-area-when-carving-obstacles-are-nearby) AI: Disabled expanding the navmesh clipping hull beyond the collected list of affected polygons - this could cause t-junctions.
*   [\[727785\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-destination-is-far-away-from-the-navmesh-the-agent-does-not-go-to-closest-spot-on-navmesh) AI: Fix prevents rare access of garbage memory of last node in navmesh bv-tree.
*   \[717967\] AI: Fixed issue where agents area cost settings were overwritten with global cost settings when doing NavMeshAgent.CalculatePath.
*   \[683323\] AI: Fixed issue where navmesh carving would sometimes collapse degenerate triangles in a way that could affect other polygons.
*   \[788040\] Android: Buildpipe: change to no longer make use of preview SDK tools installed, in order to avert "Failed to re-package resources" errors in the console.
*   \[786918\] Android: Buildpipe: Fixed AAPT errors on project export.
*   [\[765396\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/exporting-google-android-project-fails-when-processing-arr-files) Android: Buildpipe: Fixed AAR plugin and resource issues on exported projects.
*   \[554244\] Android: Ensure device detected by the editor is online
*   [\[762875\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/black-screen-on-some-android-devices-from-unity-5-dot-3) Android: Fix for black screen or crash during startup on old PVR devices (Samsung Galaxy S I9000).
*   [\[751102\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-on-instantiating-unityplayer-without-activity) Android: Fixed a crash related to the main context not being an Activity.
*   [\[734124\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ping-doesnt-work-on-android) Android: Fixed an issue where Ping wouldn't work in release mode.
*   Android: Fixed an issue where SystemInfo.deviceUniqueIdentifier would return an empty string on some x86 devices.
*   [\[759195\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getpixels-on-android-returns-incorrect-data) Android: Fixed bug in Texture.GetPixels for ETC compressed textures.
*   [\[779338\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navigation-buttons-stay-visible-after-volume-button-was-pressed-on-specific-android-devices) Android: Fixed case of immersive mode switching off on some KitKat devices when pressing volume buttons.
*   [\[766776\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-application-freezes-on-splash-screen) Android: Fixed freeze in new splash screen when using threaded GfxDevice.
*   [\[742199\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-remote-frame-debugger-does-not-work-on-android) Android: Fixed remote frame debugger
*   \[757111\] Android: LocationService - Fixed crash bug
*   [\[750227\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-app-fails-to-load-on-marshmallow-as-it-fails-to-query-for-permission) Android: Marshmallow - Fixed issues when querying for custom permissions
*   [\[755510\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/using-unity-ads-and-stripping-crashes-project-on-android) Android: Mono - Fixed crash on startup with Unity Ads when stripping is enabled
*   [\[689362\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-samsung-slash-lollipop-devices-on-incoming-call-doesnt-send-pause-event-to-the-working-app) Android: Mute audio if audio focus is lost
*   [\[764422, 762733\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-unity-runs-out-of-memory-and-crashes-when-upgrading-large-playerprefs) Android: PlayerPrefs - Fixed an issue where upgrading a lot of keys from a previous version of unity would cause an out of memory error
*   [\[758155\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-only-garbage-is-rendered-on-certain-devices-gles3-selected-on-some-gles2-devices) Android: Support OpenGL ES 3.0 on Vivante GPUs
*   \[696580\] Android: Tegra 2: application no longer crashes if UnitySendMessage is called during initialization
*   [\[763447\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-spaces-in-ndk-path-result-in-compile-failure-no-proper-error) Android/IL2CPP: Fixed build errors on NDK paths with whitespaces
*   \[766698\] Android/IL2CPP: Fixed crash on second startup after installation
*   \[769704\] Animation: Added an error when an AnimatorOverrideController can't find the animations to override in the base AnimatorController
*   [\[760796\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationmixerplayable-2-inputs-with-humanoid-rig-makes-model-move-around-a-central-point) Animation: Added AnimationClipPlayable.applyFootIK
*   [\[742973\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-props-animations-package-will-show-isfinite-errors-in-console) Animation: Added better error messaging and handling for for AnimationCurves with invalid data
*   [\[742973\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-props-animations-package-will-show-isfinite-errors-in-console) Animation: Added better error messaging and handling for for AnimationCurves with invalid data.
*   [\[705558\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cant-delete-keyframe-from-curve-view-if-its-the-only-one-left) Animation: Allow deletion of last keyframe in curve editor
*   [\[624764\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/overridden-virtual-functions-cannot-be-used-as-animation-events) Animation: Animation Window: Overridden virtual methods are now listed as potential Animation Event targets.
*   [\[568379\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-animation-curves-and-parameters-in-the-inspector-are-not-ordered-the-same-way) Animation: Changed parameter ordering in Add Property pop-up.
*   [\[561601\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/model-importer-multi-editing-fails-when-model-scale-differs) Animation: Disabled multi-file editing of model scale because it wasn't working properly.
*   [\[743181\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-optimize-transform-hierarchy-breaks-preview) Animation: Disabled play/record/key/... buttons on Animation window when viewing objects with optimized hierarchy
*   [\[582315\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playing-an-animation-when-in-play-mode-gives-weird-result-on-go-with-rigidbody) Animation: Disabled recording and playback ui in animation window when in game mode
*   [\[766821\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationwindow-transform-reset-is-not-recorded) Animation: Disabled reset menu item in component when animation mode is active.
*   [\[757982\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-sprite-assets-into-the-hierarchy-window-deletes-their-parent-gameobject) Animation: Dragging sprite assets into the hierarchy window, then pressing cancel, deletes their parent GameObject
*   [\[753888\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-clip-length-value-is-incorrect-if-animator-is-loaded-from-asset-bundle) Animation: Fix animation clip length for bundled clip
*   [\[757982\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-sprite-assets-into-the-hierarchy-window-deletes-their-parent-gameobject) Animation: Fix for deleted GameObject when cancelling AnimationClip creation on Sprite drop.
*   Animation: Fix import of humanoids when root object rotation is not identity. Mostly single root 3DSMAX models
*   Animation: Fix memory leak in AnimatorOverrideController
*   \[767096\] Animation: Fix RootMotion import for generic animation with parent with specific default values
*   [\[758274\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/events-animation-events-can-be-created-before-the-0-00-marker-of-the-timeline) Animation: Fix to prevent Animation Event from being created with negative time.
*   [\[756463\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetbundles-crash-in-animationclip-getruntimeasset-when-instantiating-asset-bundles) Animation: Fix to prevent crash when a clip is null for an animation extracted from an asset bundle, and whose dependencies have not loaded.
*   \[710887\] Animation: Fixed a bug causing an offset between Set and Get of Animator.bodyPosition.
*   [\[715009\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-thrown-when-animating-objects-after-saving-scene-while-recording-is-off) Animation: Fixed a bug spewing errors when the animation mode was reset from saving the scene.
*   [\[768767\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-created-directly-as-asset-contains-an-empty-sprite-curve-by-default) Animation: Fixed a bug where animations created using the "Create" menu would contain an empty Sprite track
*   [\[723395\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/implicitly-created-t-equals-0-keyframes-for-rotations-are-wrong) Animation: Fixed a bug where auto keys at time 0 for rotation curves were slightly off.
*   [\[749332\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-rotation-property-is-listed-even-when-it-has-already-been-added) Animation: Fixed a bug where Rotation property would still be shown to be added even when it was animated.
*   [\[754268\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetbundle-unity-crashes-when-loading-animator-controller-from-resources-folder) Animation: Fixed a bug where the animation window would try to access a deleted animator component and cause a crash
*   [\[742258\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fireevents-animation-events-queue-up-then-fire-all-at-once-as-soon-as-fireevents-is-turned-back-on) Animation: Fixed a case where animation events queue up when fireEvents is set to false.
*   [\[736468\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mecanim-sub-state-transition-copy-and-paste-crashes-editor-on-play-at-createstatemixer) Animation: Fixed a case where copying transitions between state machines without copying destination would crash.
*   [\[774052\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-upgrading-project-in-animationcurvetpl-evaluateclamp) Animation: Fixed a crash in the importer when all keyframes on a track are invalid.
*   [\[784839\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-animationclipplayable-setclip-when-playing-scene) Animation: Fixed a crash when interrupting a transition on a synchronized layer
*   [\[742124\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ienumerator-dot-movenext-crashes-at-scripting-trackedreferencebasetoscriptingobjectimpl) Animation: Fixed a crash when trying to enumerate a list of 0 animations on the Animation component.
*   [\[771744\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-added-while-creating-new-animation-isnt-saved-and-is-missing-after-scene-is-reopened) Animation: Fixed adding an Animator via the AnimationWindow not dirtying the scene
*   [\[743247\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-nullreferenceexception-error-when-selecting-multiple-motion-files) Animation: Fixed an error in the Inspector when selecting multiple files.
*   \[742069\] Animation: Fixed an issue where animation events would be significantly slower when an object has a lot of components.
*   [\[699102\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/events-animation-event-performance-degrades-depending-on-amount-of-components-on-animated-object) Animation: Fixed an issue where animation events would be significantly slower when an object has a lot of components.
*   [\[755714\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-object-reference-missing-after-clicking-on-it-and-editing-its-animator) Animation: Fixed an issue where AnimationPreview objects would get grabbed by FindGameObjectWithTag
*   [\[761215\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-animatorcullingmode-from-always-animate-to-cull-completely-does-not-increase-fps) Animation: Fixed an issue where Changing culling modes during runtime would not take effect correctly
*   [\[769861\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-component-gets-disabled-going-into-editor-play-mode) Animation: Fixed an issue where changing the selected game object would leave the animated properties modified.
*   \[739194\] Animation: Fixed an issue where euler angles were being shown differently in 5.3 than in 5.2.
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where events and additional curves in 0-length animations were popping errors
*   [\[769505\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-throws-internal-error-found-a-curve-with-both-quaternion-and-euler-bindings-curves-should-have-only-one-or-the-other) Animation: Fixed an issue where having animations with a mixed number of bones in a controller, and having Write Defaults to false would throw errors.
*   [\[764019\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-importer-creates-different-animation-clip-if-firstly-curves-are-copied-and-then-setcurve-is-called) Animation: Fixed an issue where imported keyframes would overlap and get sorted in the wrong order
*   [\[742367\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-clips-created-through-inspector-default-to-quaternion-interpolation) Animation: Fixed an issue where rotation keys created through the inspector defaulted to quaternion curves instead of euler curves.
*   [\[759115\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transform-rotation-value-changes-on-play-mode-a-little-bit) Animation: Fixed an issue where Rotation values would change on save
*   [\[754595\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scrubbing-or-reviewing-animation-created-with-5-dot-3-in-the-animation-window-changes-values-in-the-editor) Animation: Fixed an issue where Rotation values would stay applied to objects after exiting Animation Mode
*   [\[767356\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crash-on-insertanimationclipcurveidscrash-when-applying-changes-to-animation-settings) Animation: Fixed an issue where switching to playmode and applying import properties to a Legacy Animation would crash
*   Animation: Fixed an issue where the ModelImporterClipAnimation inspector would not show properly when he Avatar Mask was empty
*   [\[754595\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scrubbing-or-reviewing-animation-created-with-5-dot-3-in-the-animation-window-changes-values-in-the-editor) Animation: Fixed an issue with rotations staying applied after animating
*   [\[745139\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/imported-constant-curve-interpolates-over-2-frames) Animation: Fixed an issue with stepped keys having the wrong value.
*   [\[784131\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationevent-at-frame-0-or-1-is-triggered-once-on-layer-with-0-weight) Animation: Fixed animation event firing even though layer weight is set to zero.
*   [\[745781\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-event-does-not-fire-on-the-last-frame-of-looping-animations) Animation: Fixed animation event not firing for transition with exit time of 1 and duration of 0.
*   [\[745131\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-deleting-key-in-the-dopesheet-does-not-update-scene-slash-eval) Animation: Fixed animation in Scene View not updating when deleting key in dopesheet editor.
*   [\[769029\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-previewing-generic-animation-humanoid-animations-preview-doesnt-work) Animation: Fixed Animation previewer not detecting properly target object to preview
*   \[762274\] Animation: Fixed Animation recording being broken in some cases.
*   [\[759029\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-window-does-not-refresh-properly-when-adding-new-game-objects-or-changing-selection-in-hierarchy) Animation: Fixed animation window not updating to selection when out of focus or when just opened
*   [\[760612\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-usage-increases-with-every-animationclip-dot-sampleanimation-call) Animation: Fixed AnimationClip.SampleAnimation leak
*   Animation: Fixed AnimationClipImporter inspector for Generic clips
*   \[762709\] Animation: Fixed AnimationClipPlayable.duration so that it returns the length of its AnimationClip
*   [\[748164\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/long-clip-names-create-a-mess-in-the-statemachine) Animation: Fixed Animator Blend Tree layout issues with long motion names.
*   Animation: Fixed Animator with statemachine behaviour runtime compile error not firing callback on the right SMB
*   [\[741799\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crossfadeinfixedtime-fails-transition-when-called-during-ongoing-crossfadeinfixedtime) Animation: Fixed Animator.CrossFade failing when already crossfading.
*   [\[757904\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-update-mode-change-is-not-saved) Animation: Fixed Animator.UpdateMode not being saved.
*   \[732776\] Animation: Fixed AnimatorController vs AnimatorControllerPlayable not being reset the same way when modified.
*   \[743494\] Animation: Fixed AnimatorControllerPlayable.GetParameter crash.
*   [\[753204\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-k-hotkey-makes-an-annoying-beep-sound) Animation: Fixed beeping sounds when pressing 'k' and 'c' hotkeys in the Animation window.
*   \[748211\] Animation: Fixed blending not smooth when entering or leaving empty state.
*   [\[573482\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/broken-mapping-applied-by-switching-to-the-muscles-tab) Animation: Fixed broken Avatar Configure Tool when changing tabs with invalid Avatar.
*   [\[756989\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/importing-models-does-not-save-root-motion-correctly) Animation: Fixed broken import of RootMotion transforms for Humanoid.
*   [\[766898\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-compression-distorts-animation) Animation: Fixed case of animation compression distorting animation.
*   [\[770184\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blendtrees-not-possible-to-use-blend-tree-diagram-to-modify-blending-in-play-mode) Animation: Fixed case of blend tree inspector not updating animator values in game mode.
*   [\[731510\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-selecting-transition-and-entering-play-mode-incorrect-transition-is-shown) Animation: Fixed case of incorrect transition shown in Inspector when entering Play Mode.
*   [\[740173\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-deleting-layer-and-clicking-undo-transitions-are-missing) Animation: Fixed case of missing transitions when undoing layer deletion in Animator window.
*   [\[778658\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-playback-should-stop-when-clicking-to-change-current-frame) Animation: Fixed case of playback not stopping when changing frame in the Animator window.
*   \[774265\] Animation: Fixed case of sample rate not being taken into account when moving key frame in curve editor.
*   [\[776673\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-clip-in-animation-window-does-not-update-scene-view) Animation: Fixed case of Scene View not updating when changing clip in the Animation window.
*   [\[579556\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/curve-editor-x-axis-slider-acts-weird-when-zoomed-in) Animation: Fixed case of slider in curve editor and dope sheet editor resetting for clips of short duration.
*   [\[775732\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/undo-operation-in-a-substate-machine-moves-focus-back-to-base-layer) Animation: Fixed case of state machine undo moving focus back to base layer.
*   [\[667639\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-preview-transition-dot-text-is-clipped-in-a-transition-preview) Animation: Fixed clipped text for transition preview warning message.
*   \[715969\] Animation: Fixed contextual menu operation on multiple selection in Animation window hierarchy.
*   [\[781321\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-keyframes-cant-be-copy-slash-pasted-to-a-clip-where-associated-properties-dont-already-exist) Animation: Fixed copy/paste to a clip where associated properties don't exist.
*   [\[783821\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/updating-animator-from-event-recursively-triggers-event) Animation: Fixed crash when calling Animator.Update(0) in an AnimationEvent
*   [\[741043\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animatoroverridecontroller-controllers-assignment-to-two-prefabs-causes-crash) Animation: Fixed crash when changing OverrideController on Animator with no Avatar.
*   [\[778887\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animatorcontrollerplayable-crash-on-second-run-time-instantiation-of-runttimeanimatorcontroller) Animation: Fixed crash when changing playable controller in animator in game mode
*   [\[721289\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editing-and-saving-script-while-in-play-mode-causes-editor-to-crash) Animation: Fixed crash when changing scripts while in Play Mode.
*   \[754373\] Animation: Fixed crash when deleting all euler keys in animation curve.
*   [\[743374, 740860, 742587\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/userlist-removeindex-crash-on-deleting-animator-controller-file-from-project) Animation: Fixed crash when deleting AnimatorController asset.
*   \[748219\] Animation: Fixed crash when duplicating transition.
*   [\[738767\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copying-transition-between-default-substatemachine-and-entry-state-crashes-unity-on-collectpptrs) Animation: Fixed crash when trying to copy Entry Transition.
*   [\[753866\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/if-you-call-animator-crossfades-when-it-is-crossfading-animator-will-crossfade-from-first-called-crossfade) Animation: Fixed Crossfade called subsequently not properly interrupting transition.
*   [\[768490\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animatorcontrollerplayable-dot-prepareframe-is-called-on-culled-animators) Animation: Fixed Culled Animator still calling PrepareFrame
*   \[718615\] Animation: Fixed current frame not set properly in Animation window at certain sample rates.
*   [\[688412\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-current-time-line-breaks-visually) Animation: Fixed current timeline breaking in the AnimationWindow during resize of the window.
*   [\[759023\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/in-animation-curveeditor-curve-not-updated-when-manipulating-event-at-the-end-of-the-clip) Animation: Fixed curve editor range not updated when moving animation event.
*   \[707863\] Animation: Fixed curve selection loss in curve editor when move keys in dopesheet editor.
*   [\[785686\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/copy-slash-pasting-key-frame-range-in-dopesheet-editor-does-not-always-erase-in-between-keys) Animation: Fixed curve selection not clearing in dopesheet editor when clicking on editor background
*   \[727806\] Animation: Fixed documentation for AvatarBuilder.
*   [\[761674\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-dopesheet-first-edit-not-registered) Animation: Fixed dopesheet keyframe manipulation not registered.
*   \[773007\] Animation: Fixed error message in AnimationClip importer.
*   \[775773\] Animation: Fixed error message in console while optimizing animation hierarchy.
*   [\[742622\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-adding-color-property-generates-error) Animation: Fixed error message when adding color animation.
*   [\[769885\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/blendtrees-when-playing-scene-with-a-blend-tree-selected-in-the-inspector-an-error-is-thrown) Animation: Fixed error message when using BlendTree livelink
*   [\[747222\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-when-calling-animation-event-which-uses-not-supported-function) Animation: Fixed errors with unsupported functions and enum events.
*   \[719392\] Animation: Fixed event window not appearing when pressing Add Animation Event button.
*   [\[729176\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-text-field-focus-on-add-behaviour) Animation: Fixed focus on search field when opening the add StateMachineBehaviour windows.
*   [\[753273\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-zoom-not-updating-in-curves-view) Animation: Fixed frame clipping not performed when changing clips in curve editor.
*   [\[723883\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-number-in-animation-tab-not-changing-when-selected) Animation: Fixed frame number not updating during playback when it's being edited.
*   [\[723883\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/frame-number-in-animation-tab-not-changing-when-selected) Animation: Fixed frame number not updating when pressing next/previous key frame button while it's being edited.
*   [\[780631\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationwindow-unexpected-curve-when-duplicating-animated-child-game-object) Animation: Fixed game object animated data being duplicated when copy pasting in scene view hierarchy
*   Animation: Fixed Generic MatchTarget.
*   [\[740584\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-window-text-becomes-blurry) Animation: Fixed ghost rename text field in Animation window when changing selection.
*   [\[746454\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animatorwindow-layer-highlight-stays-in-the-same-place-if-the-layer-is-dragged) Animation: Fixed highlight at wrong index after drag&dropping layer in Animator.
*   [\[756422\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-frame-f-in-curves-view-is-inconsistent-with-dopesheet-view) Animation: Fixed inconsistencies in dopesheet editor and curve editor framing
*   [\[769233\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/new-keyframe-has-inconsistent-tangent-status-when-created-next-to-broken) Animation: Fixed inconsistency in tangent mode when a key frame is created between two with different tangent modes
*   [\[776653\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-change-clip-in-animation-window-if-selection-is-locked) Animation: Fixed issue where it was not possible to change clip when Animation window is locked.
*   [\[778610\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-events-can-be-added-to-read-only-animation) Animation: Fixed issue whereby animation events could be added to read-only animation clips.
*   [\[775918\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/we-can-delete-a-property-or-a-keyframe-in-a-read-only-clip-in-the-animation-window) Animation: Fixed issue whereby property or keyframe deletion in read-only clip was not disabled in Animation window.
*   [\[751714\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/first-frame-of-animation-displays-default-state-of-the-object) Animation: Fixed issue with first frame of animation displaying default state of the object.
*   [\[775841\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/getting-unable-to-create-animatable-spriterenderer-component-error-when-drag-and-dropping-sprite-in-animation-window) Animation: Fixed issues when dragging and dropping a sprite into a clip with no existing sprites.
*   \[683514, 692934\] Animation: Fixed issues with 2D elements creating unwanted keyframes in the animation window when enabled/disabled.
*   [\[722129\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreference-when-trying-to-animate-sprite-in-animation-window) Animation: Fixed issues with dragging and dropping sprites in a GameObject with multiple bindings available.
*   [\[753249\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-entering-1-in-edit-key-time-options-returns-0) Animation: Fixed key editing over duplicates issues in curve editor.
*   \[732776\] Animation: Fixed LayersAffectMassCenter with ControllerPlayable.
*   Animation: Fixed leaking scriptable objects in AnimationWindow.
*   \[748981\] Animation: Fixed live link to OverrideController.
*   \[754813\] Animation: Fixed long Animator.Update not playing all Events/ExitTimes
*   [\[769964\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/starting-play-mode-in-editor-animatorstatemachine-buildruntimeasset-takes-longer-than-usual-first-time) Animation: Fixed long start play mode for scene with a lot of controller
*   [\[762706\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/selecting-children-on-a-game-object-changes-the-current-animation-selection) Animation: Fixed loss of animation window selection when selecting child game objects.
*   [\[781950\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/we-can-lose-properties-when-copy-slash-pasting-properties-from-one-clip-to-another-in-animation-window) Animation: Fixed missing keys when pasting on curves with multiples matching properties
*   \[741653\] Animation: Fixed missing operation when dragging dope key outside of viewport
*   [\[740590\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-window-allows-to-rename-but-later-shows-missing-warning-and-doesnt-let-to-undo) Animation: Fixed missing undo when renaming binding in animation window.
*   [\[752791\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-inconsistent-inspector-update) Animation: Fixed missing update to inspector when adding or removing property while recording animation.
*   [\[777630\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deleting-parameter-which-is-used-by-transition-from-any-state-doesnt-trigger-a-warning) Animation: Fixed missing warning when deleting a parameter that is used by a transition from "Any State"
*   [\[769201\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-can-enter-negative-value-for-current-frame-value) Animation: Fixed negative value in frame navigation ui not prevented
*   [\[721991\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-throws-nullreferenceexception-and-continues-playing-after-the-gameobject-is-deleted) Animation: Fixed NullReferenceException in Animation window when deleting the GO that is played.
*   [\[745089\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-controller-remove-of-state-in-animator-controller-in-survival-shooter-causes-multiple-nullreferenceexceptions) Animation: Fixed NullReferenceExceptions when deleting a state after opening a project from 4.x.
*   [\[743873\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/aw-next-frame-hotkey-stops-at-increments-of-1m3sec) Animation: Fixed numerical issues in next/previous frame scrubbing of animation window.
*   \[766775\] Animation: Fixed offset when drag&dropping sprites in animation window
*   \[677972\] Animation: Fixed OpenGL errors showing in console when closing "Add Property" popup window
*   \[740187\] Animation: Fixed Play/Pause/Step buttons not turning red when entering AnimationWindow recording
*   [\[765280\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/can-edit-imported-read-only-animation-clip) Animation: Fixed property added in recording mode to read-only clip
*   [\[556392\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-window-text-in-input-fields-cant-be-deselected) Animation: Fixed property value not getting unselected on mouse down in animation window.
*   [\[774484\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/after-importing-model-with-optimize-game-object-enabled-leads-to-incorrect-gameobject-scaling) Animation: Fixed Scale not working in editor on GameObject with OptmizeGameObject
*   \[689644\] Animation: Fixed scale value getting zeroed when removing scale curve components in AnimationWindow.
*   [\[746322\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-controller-doesnt-save-onto-a-gameobject) Animation: Fixed scene not being dirtied when AnimatorController changes on Animator.
*   [\[747816\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/statemachine-when-changing-animator-controller-in-play-mode-state-machine-behavior-doesnt-change) Animation: Fixed StateMachineBehaviour not updating when changing AnimatorController at runtime.
*   [\[765141\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onstatemachineenter-is-called-on-the-layer-1-statemachinebehaviour-although-it-should-be-called-on-the-layer-2) Animation: Fixed StateMachineBehaviours on layer not being called properly.
*   [\[768879\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transition-from-sub-state-machine-created-at-the-top-level-is-connected-to-entry-state) Animation: Fixed StateMachineTransition being displayed as EntryTransition
*   \[620551\] Animation: Fixed text editing overlay remaining active in animation window when losing focus
*   [\[568379\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-animation-curves-and-parameters-in-the-inspector-are-not-ordered-the-same-way) Animation: Fixed the display order of properties in the animation window to be the same as instantiation in component.
*   [\[770140\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-regression-getlocalizedstring-error-is-displayed-after-double-clicking-animator-state) Animation: Fixed transition previewer getting stuck in an infinite loop with some transitions.
*   [\[575983\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-remove-a-property-from-a-missing-mono-behavior-from-the-animation-window) Animation: Fixed unremovable property in the animation window.
*   [\[759022\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animationwindow-unresponsive-on-zoom-out) Animation: Fixed unresponsive animation window when zoomed out beyond a certain level
*   \[727806\] Animation: Generating an avatar with AvatarBuilder should no longer return an error if the HumanDescription doesn't include the whole hierarchy up to the topmost GameObject.
*   [\[778870\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/if-scaling-go-using-vector3-with-zero-z-or-vector2-then-its-child-rigidbody-will-have-its-position-multiplied-by-that-vector) Animation: If scaling GO using Vector3 with zero z or Vector2 then its child Rigidbody will have its position multiplied by that vector
*   \[664046\] Animation: Implemented API for tangentMode in AnimationUtility
*   [\[746020\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/model-importer-fails-to-process-mask-transforms) Animation: ModelImporter.defaultClipAnimation should return the default mask.
*   Animation: Optimized AvatarMask inspector.
*   [\[749764\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-when-deleting-a-transition-or-state-hindrance-message-box-appears) Animation: Removed modal dialog showing when removing states or transitions in the animator window.
*   [\[551649\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/its-possible-to-animate-properties-of-the-animator-dot-in-the-animation) Animation: Removed the animator property "enabled" from the list of animatable properties in the animation window.
*   \[743853\] Animation: Renamed interpolation Euler Angles (Quaternion Approximation) to Euler Angles (Quaternion) for simplicity
*   \[765649\] Animation: Root motion not applied on single object
*   \[771510\] Animation: Rotate tool no longer rotates wrong for object with negatively scaled parent.
*   [\[759115\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/transform-rotation-value-changes-on-play-mode-a-little-bit) Animation: Rotation value changes on Play Mode a little bit.
*   [\[754265\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fbx-unity-hardcrashes-when-importing-blender-rigify-model) Animation: Unity hard-crashes when importing blender rigify model
*   [\[786873\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-directormanager-executestage-when-an-animation-key-tries-to-activate-a-gameobject-which-has-animator-attached-to-it) Animation: \[backport 5.3\] Fixed crash when animating visibily of a game object also containing animation in play mode.
*   [\[726464\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/loading-asset-bundles-in-the-editor-does-not-work) Asset Bundles: AssetBundles: Loading AssetBundles via WWW outside of Play Mode now works correctly.
*   Asset Bundles: BuildAssetBundles will now switch back to the original Active Build Target when finished.
*   [\[781866\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/compression-is-not-performed-on-assetbundles-using-buildpipeline-dot-buildstreamedsceneassetbundle) Asset Bundles: Fixed default lzma compression for BuildPipeline.BuildStreamedSceneAssetBundle.
*   [\[769858\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assetbundle-building-assetbundles-with-variants-produces-error-messages-in-editor-console) Asset Bundles: Fixed the source of error messages when building variant asset bundles.
*   \[774223\] Asset Bundles: Fixed up-to-date check when a script is only renamed, which previously could result in Asset Bundle build failures.
*   [\[771372\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onpreprocessmodel-modelimporter-filescale-is-always-1-during-first-import-reguardless-of-actual-filescale) Asset Import: Fixed issue with fileScale value always being set to 1 on first import.
*   [\[778562\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-fails-to-import-blend-when-blender-2-dot-77-is-installed) Asset Import: Support of Blender 2.77 and later
*   Asset Loading: Asset Loading: Fixed possible crash when loading multiple asset bundles simultaneously.
*   Asset Loading: AssetLoading: Fixed excessive memory usage when decompressing AssetBundles with many objects inside (very large serialized file).
*   Asset Loading: Fixed AssetBundle read error when compressed data could be read as uncompressed.
*   Asset Loading: Fixed possible AssetBundle caching error when starting multiple downloads with an empty cache.
*   [\[758260\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/writing-to-cache-crashes-the-app-on-ios) Asset Loading: Fixed thread hang after filesystem error when decompressing AssetBundle data to the cache.
*   [\[762739\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/compress-assets-on-import-setting-ignored-when-switching-platform) Asset Management: Fixed case of Compress Assets On Import setting being ignored when switching platforms.
*   [\[732854\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audio-low-pass-filter-doesnt-work-on-audio-listener) Audio: Audio Low Pass Filter now woks on Audio Listener.
*   [\[758064\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-audio-profiler-shows-wrong-information-when-using-spatialization) Audio: Audio Profiler shows "wrong" information when using Spatialization
*   Audio: Audio profiler: Added separator lines between columns, adapted initial column widths to fit and added support for horizontal scrolling.
*   [\[632169\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/audiomixer-dot-getfloat-slash-setfloat-do-not-work-unless-unity-is-restarted) Audio: AudioMixer.GetFloat() and SetFloat() now work without needing to restart Unity.
*   [\[760985\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mixer-reverb-effects-are-getting-cut-off-early) Audio: Fixed mixer reverb effects getting cut off early in standalone builds.
*   \[718344\] Audio: Fixed random mixup between internal direct and reverb signal connections which could cause AudioSources to interfere and become silent under certain conditions.
*   \[731177\] Audio: Large numbers of streaming audio clips no longer cause crashes in batch mode.
*   [\[715257\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/microphone-dot-isrecording-null-returns-true-even-when-no-devices-exist) Audio: Microphone.IsRecording(null) no longer returning true even when no devices were available.
*   Audio: Native audio plugin SDK: Fixed dspbuffersize having a value of 0 when default buffer size settings are selected.
*   [\[740603\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/failed-to-initialize-spatializer-warning-when-spatializer-plugin-is-set-to-none) Audio: No longer shows "Failed to initialize spatializer" warning when Spatializer Plugin is set to "None".
*   Audio: Preloaded sounds now allow calling GetData in Start().
*   Audio: Project browser now updates after a change has been applied in the AudioImporterInspector.
*   Audio: Sounds marked as Play On Awake are now shown in Audio profiler.
*   [\[678001\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/improve-error-messaging-on-computebuffer-constructor-usage) Compute: Add more specific error messages when creating compute buffers, to help user pinpoint the problem.
*   Compute: Avoid constant buffer overwrites when passing too wide data (e.g. Vector4 for a float3 constant)
*   Compute: Do not log warnings/errors when current build target does not support compute shaders
*   \[783093\] Compute: Documented the restriction whereby ComputeBuffer.CopyCount is only available to IndirectArgs or Raw typed destination buffers.
*   [\[708438\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/compute-rwstructuredbuffer-count-limit-is-not-properly-detected-causes-editor-to-crash) Compute: Don't dispatch a program that uses >8 UAVs on platforms that don't support that (ie. D3D11 before 11.1 etc), and print a warning on import that this won't work
*   \[780340\] Compute: Fixed a regression where ComputeShader.SetFloats wouldn't set all values in some constants (like arrays of matrices).
*   Compute: Fixed bugs on HLSL to GLSL compute shader translation with atomic ops.
*   \[738117\] Compute: Improved support for bool parameters for compute shaders.
*   \[781700\] Connect: Opening "last loaded project" upon Unity startup will no longer unlink project from its organization.
*   \[681950\] Core: Error messages now returned for invalid locationPathName parameter values for BuildPipeline.BuildPlayer.
*   [\[674553, 727331\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-m-rootorder-order-being-saved-as-a-prefabmodification-within-the-scene-file-has-an-incorrect-value) Core: Fix for prefabs not updating the root order property modification under certain circumstances.
*   [\[725043\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/opening-a-package-with-unity-closed-will-overwrite-included-assets-without-confirmation-dialog) Core: Fix for silent asset overwrite when importing a package via "openfile" (aka double-click).
*   [\[730559\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-importer-error-when-calling-assetdatabase-dot-refresh-during-import-of-assembly) Core: Fixed asset importer error when calling AssetDatabase.Refresh() during import of assembly.
*   [\[751691\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefabs-unity-crash-in-objectundo-store-when-delete-gameobject-with-broken-prefab-connection) Core: Fixed crash when deleting child-object when prefab connection is lost.
*   [\[716926\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-when-reverting-an-object-which-has-any-type-of-joint-component-attached) Core: Fixed deletion order of depending components.
*   [\[687655\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/special-folder-~-functionality-broken) Core: Fixed issues with import of '~' folders (ignored folders).
*   [\[687080, 543729, 549533, 593676, 562606\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cannot-rename-custom-scriptableobject-asset-if-it-has-subassets) Core: Fixed issues with ScriptableObjects added as sub-objects to assets.
*   \[732255\] Core: Fixed memory corruption in enlighten scene mapping.
*   \[736774\] Core: Fixed not being able to return license.
*   Deployment Management: Fix to ensure to include streaming asset files in the editor log build report correctly.
*   \[778565\] Deployment Management: Fixed incorrect size calculation in the editor log build report.
*   Documentation: Restored lost documentation for RenderTargetSetup.
*   [\[778324\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uninformative-failed-to-create-2d-texture-error-when-creating-rgbahalf-or-rgbafloat-texture-in-linear-color-space) DX11: Fixed errors when trying to create floating point textures in linear color space with mismatching flags.
*   \[728634\] Editor: Adjusted the width of the 'Build Settings' window so that it displays its contents correctly, even if support for some of the players is not currently available.
*   [\[748499\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/do-not-create-a-shortcut-of-a-folder-inside-itself-in-unity) Editor: Copying a directory onto itself will no longer incorrectly recurse.
*   Editor: CTRL/CMD + marquee select now correctly subtracts from selection in light probe group editor.
*   [\[779935\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/null-reference-exception-when-dragging-prefab-onto-scene-of-other-unity-instance) Editor: Dragging objects between different Editor processes should no longer cause unintended behaviors.
*   [\[755238\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editors-console-unable-to-display-unicode-characters) Editor: Editor will show compiler errors in English while building to Windows Store Apps, even if Windows locale is not set to English.
*   Editor: EditorGUIUtility.ObjectContent now adds type information to the text string as shown for ObjectFields: E.g: "Concrete (Texture2D)" instead of "Concrete".
*   Editor: EditorUtility.SetSelectedWireframeHidden state is saved into scenes.
*   \[741515\] Editor: Fied null errors when dragging Prefabs into Scene View.
*   Editor: Fix a now perfectly OK assert that can happen when alt-tabbing back.
*   [\[730441\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-hangs-when-selecting-objects-in-the-scene-view) Editor: Fix Editor freeze when picking in Scene View with a lot of overlapping game objects.
*   \[715448\] Editor: Fix Lose all keyboard shortcut when focus is in connect windows or asset store on windows
*   [\[757729\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-renderimagefilters-when-switching-to-scene-view) Editor: Fix scene view crash if internal scene view camera is disabled
*   [\[750117\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mse-game-object-duplicates-on-play-when-reference-to-that-game-object-is-set-in-another-scene) Editor: Fix to prevent Scene data corruption from cross-scene GameObject references. GameObjects from a different Scene were duplicated into the Scene that was referencing it when the Scene was saved.
*   [\[777750\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-import-adding-an-assembly-file-in-the-asset-directory-not-via-unity-throws-error-and-causes-editor-render-issues) Editor: Fix to prevent the following error: "GetEditorTargetName is not allowed to be called from a MonoBehaviour constructor, call it in Awake or Start instead".
*   [\[711720\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-property-changes-are-recorded-in-prefab-files-causing-merge-conflicts) Editor: Fixed a bug in the property diff recorder would insert property modification on the prefab asset if it was being edited in the inspector
*   \[712973\] Editor: Fixed a Mac-only crash when importing some textures.
*   \[769833\] Editor: Fixed access violation in GUIView::GUIViewWndProc.
*   \[709369\] Editor: Fixed an issue that could cause Scenes containing prefab instances with driven transforms to immediately become dirty.
*   \[703222\] Editor: Fixed Camera preview sometimes not taking manually overriden projection matrix into account.
*   \[775244\] Editor: Fixed case of access to destroyed window during shutdown.
*   [\[734284\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/colors-in-gradients-and-color-pickers-show-different-colors-when-linear-color-space-is-selected) Editor: Fixed case of different color gradients & pickers being seen between Gamma and Linear space player settings
*   \[769085\] Editor: Fixed case of EditorJsonUtility throwing MissingMethodException.
*   [\[764986\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/componentreordering-order-of-components-isnt-saved) Editor: Fixed changing order of components not getting saved. We now also support undo.
*   \[696623\] Editor: Fixed crash that could happen when animation window is open and playmode is entered
*   [\[763920\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-curves-in-particle-system-modules-doesnt-show-negative-values-until-the-system-is-deselected-and-reselected) Editor: Fixed curves in particle system inspector not showing negative values initially
*   [\[765466\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-cursorlockstate-in-a-static-initializer-crashes-at-screenmanagerwin-setlockcursor) Editor: Fixed Editor crash when locking cursor from constructor or static initializer.
*   \[776880\] Editor: Fixed exception when renaming script outside of the Editor.
*   [\[781863\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-osx-launcher-launcher-crashes-after-correct-login-attempt-in-case-of-previously-have-been-closed-at-login-page) Editor: Fixed issue whereby the launcher could crash on exit.
*   [\[745085\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/treeviewutility-nullreferenceexception-when-trying-to-configure-avatar) Editor: Fixed null ref configuring Avatar.
*   [\[775986\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/double-click-on-audio-sample-preview-while-multiple-editing-cause-nullreferenceexception) Editor: Fixed NullReferenceExceptions that could be triggered when multi-selecting in the inspector.
*   [\[729048\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-fullscreen-invalidoperationexception-message-with-file-operations) Editor: Fixed OSX native web view that would continue ticking its timer after being closed.
*   \[709059\] Editor: Fixed performance issue in SpriteInspector.
*   \[709639\] Editor: Fixed Scenes containing prefab instances becoming dirty on load.
*   [\[757212\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vector-property-input-boxes-for-materials-shrinks-when-width-of-the-inspector-reaches-certain-size) Editor: Fixed squashed vector fields in material editor
*   [\[705226\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-store-cannot-be-maximized-with-shift-plus-space) Editor: Fixed toggling of Asset Store window in fullscreen mode.
*   \[743688\] Editor: Fixed warning when deleting an open Scene in the assets folder and then saving the scene from the Hierarchy window.
*   [\[762946\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-header-scene-header-automatically-expands-if-another-scene-is-added-additively) Editor: Fixed when dragging a second scene to Hierarchy the first scene would auto expand
*   \[746120\] Editor: Home window close after sign in
*   [\[742304\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/poor-slash-no-anti-aliasing-on-standard-materials) Editor: Improved selected object wireframe overlay look when MSAA is used.
*   \[778277 763319\] Editor: Launcher cosmetic changes: adjusted header element separation and project list UI.
*   [\[788602\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/launcher-fonts-in-launcher-are-inconsistent-both-bold-and-regular) Editor: Launcher cosmetic changes: adjusted title font weight.
*   [\[739892\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-a$-unity-crashes-when-closing-it-with-detached-asset-store-window) Editor: Prevent crash when closing Unity with detached Asset Store window.
*   [\[669717\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/deffered-orthographic-no-warning-when-selected-deferred-rendering-path-with-orthographic-camera) Editor: Show a warning in camera inspector when it wants deferred but is set to ortho
*   [\[752218\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/playersettings-after-changing-graphics-api-some-ui-elements-do-not-respond-correctly) Editor: \[PlayerSettings\] After changing Graphics API some UI elements do not respond correctly
*   [\[739892\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-a$-unity-crashes-when-closing-it-with-detached-asset-store-window) Editor - Other: Fixed \[Editor, A$\] Unity crashes when closing it with detached Asset Store window
*   \[650493\] GI: "Edit" button for non-editable lightmap parameter assets now says "View".
*   \[663512\] GI: Added a note in Lighting window when reflection source is not set
*   [\[776004\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/reflectionprobes-negative-importance-value-floods-console-with-errors) GI: Disallow negative importance for reflection probes.
*   [\[743095\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-directional-lightmaps-dont-work-on-windows-phone-8-dot-1) GI: Fix fallback to non-directional lightmaps on SM2.0 hardware
*   \[684983, 672944\] GI: Fixed baked transparency not being applied to AO.
*   [\[629690\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/objects-with-transparent-standard-materials-ignore-tiling-value-while-lightmapping) GI: Fixed baked transparency textures not using tiling and offset values.
*   GI: Fixed black (NaN) artifacts produced in rendering by invalid directional lightmaps.
*   [\[743478\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fbxs-containing-3dsmax-camera-nodes-cause-unity-to-crash-when-marked-as-static) GI: Fixed crash when making object lightmap static.
*   [\[753822\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mse-error-when-playing-multiple-scenes-with-baked-gi) GI: Fixed errors when using baked lightmaps & multi-scene editing.
*   GI: Fixed issue of changing lightmap directionality mode corrupting the scene rendering.
*   [\[791437\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/win-reflection-probes-dont-show-in-demo-scene) GI: Fixed Light/Reflection probe settings in Renderer sometimes being lost after a project upgrade.
*   \[756506\] GI: Fixed missing ambient when AmbientGI is set to Baked, but BakedGI is disabled.
*   [\[731103\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-sh-parameters-of-irradiance-environment-maps-are-not-property-computed) GI: Fixed orientation of skybox when computing ambient probe on Windows and Linux.
*   [\[728021\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/draw-mode-missing-global-illumination-visualisations-in-the-scene-view-of-albedo-emissive-irradiance-directionality) GI: Fixed scene view GI visualizations sometimes not working properly.
*   [\[793304\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bakeddirection-bakedintensity-lightmap-object-preview-doesnt-show-up-and-console-is-flooded-with-nullreferenceexceptions) GI: Fixed some cases of null reference exceptions coming out of Lighting window, related to baked object preview.
*   [\[755421, 766533, 766546, 756020\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gi-realtime-gi-causes-incorrect-light-baking-on-static-objects-baked-in-directional-specular-mode) GI: Fixed some directional specular lightmap artifacts.
*   [\[714102\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preview-small-resolution-lightmaps-in-lightmap-preview-are-dislocated-to-a-corner) GI: Improved Lighting window preview of very small lightmaps.
*   [\[649006\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadows-do-not-render-for-non-static-objects-in-scenes-with-lights-set-to-mixed) GI: Improved mixing of directional specular lightmaps with realtime shadows.
*   \[650495\] GI: Improved name of Default lightmapping parameters asset.
*   [\[534658\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/substance-transparency-is-ignored-by-lightmapper) GI: Make substances work with baked transparency.
*   [\[632894\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lightprobes-gizmo-doesnt-update-automatically) GI: Refresh light probe connections when editing probe position via Inspector.
*   [\[775942\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/disabled-reflection-probes-can-not-be-rendered-using-reflectionprobe-dot-renderprobe) Global Illumination: A warning will now appear if user is trying to update a disabled reflection probe.
*   Global Illumination: Fixed a reflection probe baking issue in multi-Scene editing.
*   \[653592\] Global Illumination: Fixed issue whereby changing Reflection Probe component positioning in the Inspector makes realtime probe black.
*   [\[751599\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bakemultiplescenes-api-doesnt-work-anymore) Global Illumination: Fixed multi-scene baking
*   [\[736077\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/giscenemanager-dot-update-taking-~90-percent-processor-time-on-scene-start) Global Illumination: In editor, avoid some of automatic GI overhead when GI is turned off
*   Graphics: Added profiler markers on async texture loading waits
*   [\[777505\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/commandbuffer-material-keywords-are-ignored-in-commandbuffer) Graphics: Apply material keywords when drawing from command buffers.
*   Graphics: Avoid crash in CommandBuffer.Draw commands if null renderer/mesh is passed.
*   Graphics: DX12: Implemented support for ShadowSamplingMode.
*   [\[778188\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-opengles2-rendertexture-does-not-work-on-opengles2-if-its-size-is-not-a-power-of-2) Graphics: Ensure that we don't set unsupported filter or wrap modes
*   [\[778188\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-opengles2-rendertexture-does-not-work-on-opengles2-if-its-size-is-not-a-power-of-2) Graphics: Ensure that we don't set unsupported texture filter or wrap modes
*   [\[685154\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/with-method-playersettings-dot-setgraphicsapis-you-can-include-same-api-multiple-times) Graphics: Filter out duplicate graphics APIs in PlayerSettings.SetGraphicsAPIs
*   Graphics: Fix to prevent spam of D3D11 warning messages when setting resource names.
*   [\[735101\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-applying-texture-from-script-it-doesnt-generate-mipmaps) Graphics: Fixed an issue with Texture2D.LoadImageIntoTexture() -> Texture2D.Apply() not generating mipmaps if the Texture2D object didn't have actual mipmaps previously.
*   [\[728925\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-after-settargetbuffers-and-gameobject-dot-setactive-false) Graphics: Fixed case of crash after SetTargetBuffers and GameObject.SetActive(false).
*   [\[793506\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-colors-change-when-changing-color-space) Graphics: Fixed color space switch done via PlayerSettings.colorSpace API not taking effect immediately.
*   [\[741959\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture2d-generating-texture-with-mipmaps-through-script-causes-crash) Graphics: Fixed crash when calling Texture.Compress for large textures.
*   \[731655\] Graphics: Fixed crash when trying to set shader name on shader that failed to compile.
*   Graphics: Fixed Crunch texture compression artifacts caused by integer overflow.
*   [\[715712\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/materials-the-order-of-material-properties-in-a-dot-mat-file-changes) Graphics: Fixed material file content being non-deterministic in Editor - order of properties in a '.mat' file changes.
*   [\[765378\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/drawmeshnow-materialindex-is-being-ignored-and-all-submeshes-are-drawn) Graphics: Fixed material index not being used when calling Graphics.DrawMeshNow with rotation.
*   [\[752757\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/skinned-mesh-w-slash-blend-shapes-and-large-scale-doesnt-receive-correct-lighting-values-from-point-light) Graphics: Fixed meshes with large scale and blend shapes sometimes not being lit correctly.
*   [\[758050\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mesh-probuilder-generated-gameobject-throws-nullreferenceexception) Graphics: Fixed null reference exception being thrown when setting null to mesh triangles/indices
*   Graphics: Fixed potential problem capturing frames in RenderDoc.
*   [\[754704\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-editor-allows-to-set-syncuploadbuffersize-bellow-2-which-leads-application-to-crash-on-startup) Graphics: Fixed problem of being able to set syncUploadBufferSize below 2 which leads application to crash on startup
*   Graphics: Fixed profiling related information (SetGpuProgramName) performance issue in development player builds. (to 5.3 too)
*   [\[743239\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-with-cast-shadows-disabled-produces-shadowy-artifact-when-is-viewed-at-from-certain-angle) Graphics: Fixed shadow artifact when no shadow caster is in the view frustum.
*   [\[753118, 759483\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-setqualitylevel-makes-the-second-camera-lose-its-targettexture) Graphics: Fixed some cases of incorrectly detecting "destroy RT being assigned to Camera.targetTexture", resulting in losing Camera.targetTexture - e.g. in case of context-loss on DirectX or changing Emulation Layer in the Editor and such like.
*   [\[749690\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gear-vr-performance-drop-in-5-dot-3-0f3-when-dynamic-batching-is-on-compared-to-5-dot-3-0f2) Graphics: Graphics: Fix performance regression in dynamic batching on Adreno and Mali GPUs
*   [\[775652\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lod-group-recalculating-bounds-seems-to-do-nothing) Graphics: Improved feedback on Recalculate Bounds in LODGroup inspector.
*   Graphics: Newly created line renderers and trail renderers will now have light probes and reflection probes disabled by default.
*   [\[687726\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/instantiated-rendertexture-clears-if-you-choose-it-in-the-editor) Graphics: RenderTextures that have IsCreated==false will now consistently render black if bound, instead of undefined results.
*   [\[768296\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/static-batching-limited-in-draw-call) Graphics: Static batching can batch more objects now: previously had a limit of 32k indices, now 64k. 32k limit stays on Mac due to driver issues.
*   [\[724664\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cubemaps-uses-up-a-lot-of-memory-in-the-unity-section-of-the-profiler) Graphics: Textures imported as cubemaps now are properly marked as non-readable if import option says so. Saves memory! (coming to 5.3 too)
*   \[727467\] Graphics - General: Fixed \[DX12\] CPU profiler timeline view broken
*   IAP: Fixed case of failed IAP purchase events costing Unity Analytics analysis points.
*   IAP: Fixed case of IAP not sending Transaction events to Unity Analytics.
*   IAP: ProcessPurchase will now be invoked when a store implementation notifies Unity IAP of a purchase for a product that was unknown to Unity IAP.
*   \[743502\] IL2CPP: Fixed an issue which caused the error message "Callback cannot take parameters" if there was a DLL in the project that inherited from animation state machine classes, but which did not use animation.
*   \[742005\] IL2CPP: Fixed NavMesh stripping issue.
*   \[768042\] IMGUI: Fixed CurveEditor's OnGUI Repaint early-out not respecting control ID's
*   [\[744171\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/genericmenu-shortcut-keys-are-not-displayed) IMGUI: Fixed GenericMenu shortcut keys are not displayed
*   [\[744136\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-in-plugin-crashes-unity-at-guistyle-draw) IMGUI: Fixed IMGNullReferenceException in plugin crashing Unity at GUIStyle::Draw.
*   IMGUI: Fixed Make BeginVertical behave like BeginHorizontal.
*   [\[598054\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/material-property-drawer-does-not-display-a-slider-or-drop-down-menu) IMGUI: Fixed Material Property Drawer does not display a slider or drop-down menu
*   [\[744136\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-in-plugin-crashes-unity-at-guistyle-draw) IMGUI: Fixed NullReferenceException in plugin crashes Unity at GUIStyle::Draw
*   [\[750357\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/bengali-and-burmese-language-fonts-are-displayed-as-question-marks-on-device) iOS: Add font containing Lao characters to the fallback list
*   \[732878\] iOS: AdSupport no longer duplicated in plugin inspector.
*   [\[711986\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-building-project-with-a-different-while-running-a-project-in-xcode-version-interrupts-xcode) iOS: Change to not install Unity plugin unnecessarily. Previously this caused killing of Xcode whenever the previous build was done with different version of Unity.
*   \[525606\] iOS: Change to use remote notifications API only if they are used. This fixes a warning when submitting to iTunes Connect.
*   [\[734640\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-app-overrides-apple-tv-music) iOS: Don't override iPod music when corresponding player setting is not set
*   [\[747022\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-crash-when-deploying-to-ios6) iOS: Fix crash on iOS 6.0 devices
*   [\[732658\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-korean-symbols-are-not-rendered-when-using-dynamic-fonts) iOS: Fix Korean, Indian and Hebrew font fallbacks
*   [\[771597\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-asset-bundles-downloaded-through-loadfromcacheordownload-are-backed-up-to-icloud) iOS: Fix to ensure asset bundles are not flagged for iCloud backup by default upon download.
*   \[754679\] iOS: Fixed excessive use of file descriptors when opening AssetBundles from disk (cache or StreamingAssets folder).
*   \[740825\] iOS: iOS/OSX: Fixed text rendering performance regression.
*   [\[753299\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-modally-presented-view-controllers-on-ios8-plus-are-not-receiving-viewwilltransitiontosize-messages) iOS: viewWillTransitionToSize will now be passed to super even if we disallow orientations. This helps plugins that use presentation controllers.
*   \[736683, 739007\] iOS: Work around launch screen asset catalog bug
*   \[755365\] iOS/tvOS: Build all object files with correct SDK
*   [\[770160\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/glcore-linux-shadows-are-flickering) Linux: Fix flickering/corrupted rendering with OpenGL Core
*   [\[763944\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-glcore-fullscreen-resolution-produces-only-black-slash-grey-screen-plus-freezes-computer) Linux: Fix non-native-resolution fullscreen rendering with OpenGL Core
*   \[761639\] Mac Editor: Added functionality in order to prevent the processing of folders that contain the ".unity" extension, as this was causing the editor to crash when executing in batch mode.
*   [\[764995\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/passing-null-to-materialeditor-dot-getmaterialproperties-crashes-at-pptr-operator-shader-star-ptr64) Materials: Fixed a crash if GetMaterialProperties is called with a null in the list of materials.
*   \[776940\] Metal: Fixed case of native RenderBuffer query failing in case of multi-threaded rendering.
*   [\[759459\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-mono-string-to-utf8-checked-when-marshal-dot-structuretoptr-is-executed) Mono: Correct a crash in mono\_string\_to\_utf8\_checked when Marshal.StructureToPtr is called from managed code.
*   \[730146, 735604, 740910\] Mono: Implement IPv6 support on Windows.
*   \[759138\] MonoDevelop: Disabled Git, Subversion and NUnit add-ins by default. Fixes issue with being unable to write to newly created scripts
*   [\[754609\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/monodevelop-5-dot-9-6-new-saved-file-opens-with-u-symbols-instead-of-its-content) MonoDevelop: Fixed issue with MonoDevelop showing "��u" symbols in document view after using "Save As"
*   [\[485138\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wrong-script-opened-in-monodevelop) MonoDevelop: Fixed issue with MonoDevelop sometimes giving focus to the wrong script when opened from Unity.
*   [\[729201\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/osx-monodevelop-unusable-when-copied-to-an-external-hfs-plus-partition) MonoDevelop: OSX: Fixed issue with MonoDevelop not working when copied to case-sensitive partition
*   [\[731111\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/monodevelop-attaching-breakpoint-for-exception-allows-only-system-dot-star-exception) MonoDevelop: Show hint in breakpoints dialog that explains exceptions list is generated from currently selected project
*   Multiplayer: Clean up MatchInfo UI in the NetworkManager play mode inspector
*   [\[744002\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/it-is-possible-to-migrate-host-to-webgl-client) Multiplayer: Disabled host migration on WebGL clients (they can't become host)
*   \[729157\] Multiplayer: Disallow sending NetworkConnection object in commands
*   Multiplayer: Explicitly Dispose() WWW object in MatchMaker callback handler when done with it.
*   [\[774121,772246\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/error-uriformatexception-invalid-uri-the-hostname-could-not-be-parsed-https-on-enabling-matchmaker) Multiplayer: Fixed an issue where specifying http:// or https:// in the MatchMaker URI could cause the system to fail to connect to MatchMaker.
*   \[732687, 696591\] Multiplayer: Fixed bug where connecting to a non https MatchMaker after joining 1 match would fail in all cases
*   Multiplayer: Fixed issue where an error response from the server could lead to undesirable console output in non error cases when setting the match auth token
*   Multiplayer: Fixed issue where default matchmaker port was 80 instead of 443 in 1 code path
*   [\[745795\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/synclist-update-messages-dont-use-configurable-channel) Multiplayer: Fixed issue where SyncLists didn't use the configured channel
*   Multiplayer: Fixed issue where wrong initialization connection amount could lead to system crash.
*   [\[746011\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/host-migration-clientscene-dot-objects-count-is-increased-every-time-after-host-is-migrated) Multiplayer: Fixed issue with ClientScene.objects list increasing after every host migration
*   \[731045\] Multiplayer: Fixed issue with matchSize being incorrectly used from a join match response
*   [\[748967\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onstartauthority-called-2-times-on-player-when-starting-host-if-local-player-authority-is-set-for-player-prefab) Multiplayer: Fixed issue with OnStartAuthority being called twice on player with local authority on host
*   \[738501\] Multiplayer: Fixed UI panel on NetworkManager for match max size and name, as well as add in tooltip info for both
*   Multiplayer: Fixed up MatchMaker URI to be correct with http:// prefix as default
*   [\[748936\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ability-to-create-virtual-not-existing-client) Multiplayer: Minor improvement to network manager HUD ('connecting' state and cancel button)
*   \[727797\] Multiplayer: Networking: Fixed lobby issue where it would reject new players when there was still one slot left.
*   Multiplayer: Removed annoying warning: "no free events", and "Attempt to send to not connected connection", as well as fix ack doesn't reset with connection resetting bug.
*   [\[738047\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multiplayer-hlapi-synclist-sends-a-message-even-when-assigned-value-matches-previous-value) Multiplayer: SyncList now sends updates only when a value assignment changes the current value
*   [\[768030\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-client-unable-to-free-connections-in-networkserver-when-using-websocket) Networking: Fixed issue where the client was unable to free connections in NetworkServer when using WebSocket.
*   \[781177\] Networking: Fixed issue whereby transferring data via reliable sequenced qos channel could result in lost messages in "bad" network conditions.
*   [\[776137\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/occlusionculling-portals-scene-portal-visualization-in-scene-view-looks-glitchy-and-non-intuitive) Occlusion Culling: Fixed broken portal visualization in some cases.
*   [\[775691\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/occlusion-preview-isnt-cleared-when-creating-a-new-scene) Occlusion Culling: Fixed visualization when changing scenes.
*   \[742591\] OpenGL: Fixed non-working binary shader cache with OpenGL ES 2.
*   [\[767348\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gl-scene-w-slash-shader-for-dx11-crashes-on-openglcore-in-edit-mode) OpenGL: Fixed various corner case issues for GLSL shader generation on ComputeBuffer loads, stores and atomic ops
*   OpenGL: Windows fullscreen mode fixes
*   \[702914\] OSX: Menu bar in standalone player no longer blocks the main player loop from updating.
*   [\[772263\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-collider-visualization-does-not-scale-to-transform) Particles: Collider visualization should now scale with transform.
*   [\[763929\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particle-collider-stretches-only-according-to-its-size-on-x-axis) Particles: Disable size/rotation properly when toggling 3D in the editor
*   [\[764568\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-renderer-max-and-min-particle-size-fields-are-visible-in-the-inspector-when-rendering-meshes) Particles: Disabling unused UI options
*   [\[765905\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-culled-particle-systems-cause-cpu-spikes-when-re-entering-view-after-some-time) Particles: Dont restart system when simulating when becoming visible, and use bigger timesteps
*   [\[760072\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-calls-play-stop-clear-isalive-etc-with-withchildren-parameter-set-to-true-generates-garbage) Particles: Ensure no garbage is generated when using some script commands
*   \[761790\] Particles: Fix case of scale not being applied correctly to AABB in the TrailRenderer
*   \[757061\] Particles: Fix crash when mesh is missing inside player (eg a default mesh is used)
*   [\[757969\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-2d-collision-breaks-when-particle-velocity-is-zero-or-collision-options-are-zero) Particles: Fix error message when particles have zero velocity and start inside a collider
*   \[755095\] Particles: Fix particle shader preview to display a flat plane instead of a sphere
*   [\[759756\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-stretched-particles-disappear-when-their-base-is-offscreen-nevertheless-the-majority-of-particle-should-be-visible) Particles: Fix stretch particle bounds to avoid culling errors
*   [\[782648\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-size-over-lifetime-works-only-for-x-axis-when-3d-start-size-is-set) Particles: Fixed an edge case where 3D size wasn't behaving correctly.
*   [\[744083\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-dot-emitparams-dot-resetangularvelocity-doesnt-revert-angularvelocity) Particles: Fixed bug with scripted particle emission API.
*   [\[781570\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-invalid-aabb-b0-error-messages-with-world-collision) Particles: Fixed collision bug where NaN could be generated for the contact normal.
*   [\[763664\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-crash-on-writeminmaxgradient-when-attaching-to-sizeoverlifetime-dot-size-not-instantiated-curve) Particles: Fixed crashes with null curves and gradients
*   [\[496494\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-is-culling-particles-when-were-using-setparticles) Particles: Fixed culling when using SetParticles in standalone
*   [\[765346\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-planes-collision-mode-keeps-displaying-the-collision-plane-even-after-module-is-switched-to-world) Particles: Fixed debug plane visualization
*   [\[696305\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/activating-a-particle-system-that-was-edited-takes-longer-than-one-that-was-never-edited) Particles: Fixed for faster mesh data caching and memory usage optimization.
*   [\[756786\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/isfinite-error-spam-with-particles-and-second-camera) Particles: Fixed IsFinite error spam with particles and second camera.
*   [\[774931\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assigning-skinnedmeshrenderer-with-materials-array-of-size-0-to-shape-module-crashes-unity) Particles: Fixed issue where crashes would occur when material is missing and mesh colors are requested.
*   [\[756971\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-particle-system-is-stopped-and-cleared-after-that-it-wont-play-with-simulation-space-set-to-local) Particles: Fixed issue where particle system is stopped and cleared and after that it won't play when simulation space set to local.
*   [\[771887\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-size-over-lifetime-using-separate-axes-works-only-on-the-x-axis) Particles: Fixed issue where size over lifetime using separate axes wasn't always working.
*   [\[769838\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-sheet-particles-using-texture-sheet-animations-loop-back-to-first-frame-before-they-dissapear) Particles: Fixed issue where Texture Sheet Animations could incorrectly loop back to the first frame at the end of their animation.
*   [\[762708\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-crash-upon-assigning-the-wrong-particle-list-to-the-wrong-particlesystemtriggereventtype-via-script) Particles: Fixed issue where Trigger Module crashed when assigning the wrong list type via script.
*   [\[762702\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-trigger-death-does-not-spawn-death-subemitter) Particles: Fixed issue where Trigger Module wasn't spawning death sub emitters.
*   [\[765533\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-visualizebounds-does-not-scale-correctly-on-shape) Particles: Fixed issue where Visualize Bounds did not scale the debug rendering correctly.
*   [\[778193\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shape-using-mesh-colors-with-a-mesh-renderer-emitter-throws-an-error-if-the-meshs-shader-doesnt-have-a-color-property) Particles: Fixed mesh color usage and improved messaging.
*   [\[756108\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/meshrendermode-particles-are-scaled-too-much) Particles: Fixed mesh double scaling issues
*   [\[756194\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-plays-only-once) Particles: Fixed particle system only playing once.
*   [\[756725\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-triggered-via-event-trigger-doesnt-play) Particles: Fixed particle systemm not playing when triggered via Event Trigger.
*   [\[696610\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/renderingorder-particles-are-not-drawn-in-the-correct-order-on-rotated-particle-systems) Particles: Fixed particles are not drawn in the correct order on rotated particle systems.
*   [\[759502\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particles-disappear-after-going-offscreen-and-returning) Particles: Fixed particles disappearing after going offscreen and returning.
*   [\[756742\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/parcticlesystem-some-of-the-particles-dont-loop) Particles: Fixed particles systems not looping correctly.
*   [\[755677\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-dot-isalive-always-returns-true-for-particle-systems-with-longer-duration) Particles: Fixed ParticleSystem.IsAlive() always returns True for particle systems with longer duration
*   [\[778193\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shape-using-mesh-colors-with-a-mesh-renderer-emitter-throws-an-error-if-the-meshs-shader-doesnt-have-a-color-property) Particles: Fixed Shape Module error when shader doesn't have \_Color property.
*   [\[774931\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assigning-skinnedmeshrenderer-with-materials-array-of-size-0-to-shape-module-crashes-unity) Particles: Fixed Skinned Mesh Renderer Shape crash when its material was missing.
*   [\[782535\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particle-emission-module-burst-min-max-should-be-unsigned-int) Particles: Fixed to allow particle bursts to be larger than 64K.
*   [\[770176\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-angle-property-is-not-useful-in-cone-with-base-emiting) Particles: Fixed to hide "Angle" option in Shape Module when it is not relevant.
*   [\[723993\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/culling-unnecessary-culling-on-specific-particle-object) Particles: Fixed wrong culling of some particle objects caused by incorrect bounds calculation due to parent scaling.
*   [\[755330\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particles-getcollisionevents-returns-larger-than-actual-number-of-events) Particles: Fixing collision events to ensure correct events are sent to correct gameobjects
*   [\[754042\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-sub-emitters-should-be-named-after-their-type-when-generated) Particles: Give subemitters better default names, based on their context (birth, death etc)
*   [\[765472\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/message-when-maximum-number-of-vertices-is-reached-isnt-informative) Particles: Improve mesh particle error message, when buffers re full
*   [\[761689\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-limit-velocity-over-lifetime-allows-negative-values) Particles: LimitVelocityOverLifetime module shouldn't allow negative values
*   [\[754041\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-max-collision-shapes-should-not-go-below-0) Particles: Max Collision Shapes option cannot be negative
*   [\[757461\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particlesystem-doesnt-play-if-method-is-called-via-invoke) Particles: Particle system doesn't play if method is called via Invoke fixed.
*   [\[745121\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shapemodule-particle-system-with-skinned-mesh-renderer-as-shape-has-its-particles-emitted-in-wrong-position-and-rotation) Particles: Particles are now emitted with the correct position//rotation when using a Skinned Mesh Renderer or Mesh Renderer as shape.
*   [\[767786\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-particlesystem-dot-stop-does-not-stop-if-the-ps-is-not-visible) Particles: Preserve stopEmitting parameter when becoming visible (culling fix)
*   \[767827\] Particles: Renamed Particle.lifetime property to Particle.remainingLifetime for clarity.
*   [\[760830\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shuriken-separate-axes-makes-particle-rotate-in-opposite-direction) Particles: Reverse 3D rotation direction, for consistency with existing 1D rotation
*   [\[761003\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-initial-module-properties-cannot-be-animated) Particles: Support radius in Trigger Module
*   Physics: Ensure that buoyancy forces take into account the Rigidbody2D gravity-scale.
*   [\[753924\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-when-runs-minimap-project) Physics: Ensure we don't pass infinite radius into PhysX overlap
*   Physics: Fix ensures that animating a Joint2D property always updates the joint immediately.
*   Physics: Fix ensures that auto-configuration properties for Joint2D update the joint immediately.
*   Physics: Fix ensures that when recalculating contacts for an Effector2D, all relevant Rigidbody2D are woken.
*   [\[751979\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-rigidbody-dot-inertiatensor-to-itself-changes-rigidbody-behaviour) Physics: Fix inertia tensor being broken after a new Collider was added to the Rigidbody
*   \[747934\] Physics: Fix stops TargetJoint2D crashing when using a Kinematic Rigidbody2D.
*   [\[766261\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/boxcast2d-and-circlecast2d-has-inconsistent-edges-at-the-starting-collider) Physics: Fix to ensure that 2D Overlap/Cast checks use consistent 'skin' radius for all shapes
*   [\[765870\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/spring-joints2d-distance-values-different-when-added-manually-and-procedurally) Physics: Fix to ensure that a Joint2D auto-configuration still works if joint is added from script.
*   [\[763922\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/targetjoint2d-added-during-runtime-ignores-collision) Physics: Fix to ensure that a TargetJoint2D added via script allows collisions with static colliders.
*   [\[762771\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/object-not-affected-by-gravity-if-moveposition-is-executed-before-gravityscale-is-set) Physics: Fix to ensure that changing Rigidbody2D.gravityScale whilst a Rigidbody2D.MovePosition is in progress now works.
*   [\[764769\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigidbody2d-with-interpolate-and-start-asleep-flickers-after-addforce) Physics: Fix to stop Rigidbody2D with Interpolation being placed at world origin for a single update upon start.
*   [\[752059\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/2d-trigger-colliders-not-working-as-expected) Physics: Fixed an issue where a static trigger collider would not report a contact when moved.
*   \[765300\] Physics: Fixed case of center of mass and inertia tensor being reset after game object was reactivated.
*   \[744007\] Physics: Fixed crash when disabling Colliders from OnTriggerStay callbacks.
*   Physics: Fixed crash when setting a frequency of zero on the TargetJoint2D.
*   [\[769136\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cloth-adding-cloth-to-an-object-throws-getlocalizedstring-error) Physics: Fixed errors reported by Cloth Inspector when an object with a cloth component is selected.
*   [\[716264\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hingejoint-at-runtime-attaching-kinematic-rigidbody-to-hinge-joint-and-then-making-it-non-kinematic-causes-strange-behaviour) Physics: Fixed HingeJoint setup issue when changing isKinematic property on attached Rigidbody
*   [\[755612\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/platformeffector-one-sided-parent-object-with-negative-scale-inverts-the-collider) Physics: PlatformEffector2D now supports negative scaling on parent Transform.
*   [\[763806\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-center-of-mass-and-inertia-tensor-values-cannot-be-set-on-a-rigidbody-without-a-non-trigger-collider) Physics: Rigidbodies without non-trigger colliders can again have custom center of mass and inertia tensor.
*   [\[758422\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/relativevelocity-dot-magnitude-is-measured-differently-in-5-dot-3) Physics2D: Fixed case of Collision2D.relativeVelocity being reported with incorrect values.
*   [\[778125, 780607\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/polygoncollider2d-is-reshaped-if-sprite-is-dragged-into-the-public-field-of-the-script) Physics2D: Fixed issue whereby dragging a Sprite/Texture2D into the Inspector would cause a PolygonCollider2D to use it even though it is not dropped on the component.
*   [\[745080\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-checking-slash-unchecking-windowed-checkbox-resets-screen-resolution) Player: Checking/unchecking the 'Windowed' checkbox will no longer reset the screen resolution.
*   \[772977\] Plugins: Fixed Editor crash, when trying to set plugin settings for deprecated platforms.
*   Plugins: Fixed issue with Android plugins where some of them were treated as folder plugins (for example, Assets/Plugins/Android/SimpleJarPlugin.java).
*   Plugins: Native plugins will now correctly initialize their settings on import and this will be reflected in meta file.
*   Profiler: Fixed excessive memory usage when starting development player.
*   [\[760993\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/profiler-parent-processes-show-wrong-time-if-its-a-bigger-number) Profiler: Fixed incorrect time displaying in CPU profiler if time exceeded 5 seconds
*   [\[765357\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pure-virtual-function-call-crash-on-import) Scripting: Always throw an exception when calling AssetDatabase methods from constructors and during serialization
*   [\[765509\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-closing-built-application-throws-nullreferenceexception-at-unityengine-dot-joint-get-connectedbody) Scripting: Deactivation order during built application shutdown is now consistent with normal scene unloading. Previously closing a built aplication could result in a NullReference exception.
*   [\[746490\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/stacktracelogtype-dot-none-consumes-memory) Scripting: Debug.Log won't consume memory when StackTraceLogType is None
*   [\[754405\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/casting-issue-sprite-is-not-a-member-of-unityengine-dot-component) Scripting: Fix issue that causes UnityScript to incorrectly detect some methods return type
*   [\[766939\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/destroyimmediate-calling-getcomponent-after-destroyimmediate-crashes-at-monobehaviour-callawake) Scripting: Fixed crash after calling DestroyImmediate(gameObject) in MonoBehaviour.Awake
*   [\[746877\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-crashes-on-buildscriptpopupmenus-when-fieldinfo-dot-setvalue-is-set-to-boolean-value) Scripting: Fixed crash on FieldInfo.SetValue and FieldInfo.GetValue when field is not defined on target object specified.
*   [\[770003\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scenemanager-dot-unloadscene-crashes-at-atomicstack-pop) Scripting: Fixed crash triggered by a double cleanup inside coroutines.
*   [\[723650\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/accessing-tooltip-property-of-serializedproperty-crashes-unity) Scripting: Fixed crash when accessing SerializedProperty.tooltip in some cases.
*   [\[750066\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/javascript-crashes-when-using-getcomponent-when-declaring-variable) Scripting: Fixed issue where GetComponent() throws an exception if called from constructors or deserialization.
*   [\[697550\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scriptableobject-class-inside-another-class-inheriting-scriptableobject-returns-null-when-using-createinstance) Scripting: Fixed issue with being unable to use ScriptableObject.CreateInstance with a nested ScriptableObject class
*   [\[761360\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-unity-crashes-when-onaudiofilterread-is-running) Scripting: Fixed OnAudioFilterRead() crash.
*   [\[723842\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gethashcode-returns-0-for-destroyed-gameobjects-and-monobehaviours-in-builds-but-not-in-the-editor) Scripting: GetHashCode() on UnityEngine.Object derived classes no longer changes when the object is destroyed.
*   [\[750066\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/javascript-crashes-when-using-getcomponent-when-declaring-variable) Scripting: GetTransform<>() invoked from a constructor or field initializer could crash Unity.
*   [\[737529\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/il2cpp-executionengineexception-is-thrown-on-system-dot-reflection-dot-monoproperty-getteradapterframe) Scripting: Prevent an ExecutionEngineException in System.Reflection.MonoProperty::GetterAdapterFrame when Mono AOT or IL2CPP is used with the .NET 2.0 profile.
*   [\[736102\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-shader-occlusion-is-not-rendered) Shaders: Do not overwrite alpha if opaque surface shader deferred pass writes to occlusion.
*   \[737455\] Shaders: Don't create depth buffer temporary textures created by GrabPass.
*   Shaders: Fix DX11 shader disassembly not showing correctly in the editor UI for 'show compiled code'.
*   [\[778700\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standard-shader-transparent-rendering-mode-after-changes-becomes-invisible) Shaders: Fixed a case where a material using a standard shader with transparency could be sorted incorrectly if the shader was reselected.
*   [\[782654\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-crash-when-a-shader-has-errors-with-bad-error-message) Shaders: Fixed a potential crash if an internal error is encountered while compiling a D3D11 shader.
*   \[644807\] Shaders: Fixed case of animated standard shader Emission being wrongly overriden by material inspector
*   Shaders: Fixed cases where unsupported LightMode=Meta pass type was wrongly making LightMode=ShadowCaster passes unsupported too.
*   Shaders: Fixed PBS surface shader compilation when Occlusion output is not present.
*   [\[744588\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-selectionrenderqueue-render-when-saving-shader-and-clicking-on-scene-view) Shaders: Fixed possible editor scene view picking crash, after reimporting shader with a GrabPass.
*   [\[736007\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standardshader-specular-artefact-using-standard-shader-on-ios-slash-android-es3) Shaders: Fixed standard shader artifacts caused by precision problems on OpenGL ES 3 mobiles.
*   [\[785928, 786539\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gl2-gles2-graphic-artifacts-on-pbr-lightning-with-sm2-dot-0) Shaders: Fixed UNITY\_SAMPLE\_TEXCUBE\_LOD to only force texCubeBias when we are sure that there is no texCubeLod available.
*   Shaders: Fixed UTF8 BOM in compute shader include files not being understood properly.
*   Shaders: Fixed very small or very large default shader property values not being serialized correctly.
*   [\[784141\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lambert-with-surfaceoutputstandard-gives-syntax-error-instead-of-clear-error-message) Shaders: Improved error messages emitted if a syntax error is found early in surface analysis.
*   [\[728200\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/data-written-to-the-alpha-channel-of-the-diffuse-does-not-show-up-in-gbuffer0) Shaders: Overwrite diffuse alpha channel in opaque shader before finalGBufferModifier is applied.
*   Shaders: Reduced number of DX11 samplers used by standard shader (two reflection probes share a sampler, and three LPPV textures share a sampler).
*   Shaders: Reimport compute shaders from the same folder when .cginc is modified, just like regular shaders are.
*   [\[786534\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shaders-legacy-shaders-slash-self-illumin-slash-vertexlit-expectes-emission-property) Shaders: Removed a spurious error about \_Emission if a legacy Self-Illumin shader was selected in a material.
*   Shaders: Some optimizations for surface shader importing time.
*   [\[774822\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/regression-5-dot-4-rtp-rtp-terrain-shader-rendering-is-broken-after-upgrading-project-to-5-dot-4) Shaders: Surface shaders can now directly include "Lighting.cginc" to control where it is included.
*   \[669396\] Shaders: \_CameraDepthTexture is now preserved across calls to RenderWithShader().
*   \[751764\] Shadows: Add animation support of light shadow near plane
*   \[745720\] Shadows: Fixed shadow error messages happening in some cases
*   [\[761152\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadow-disappears-when-caster-goes-off-screen) Shadows: Fixed shadows disappearing for some off-screen shadows casters
*   [\[766179\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/setting-shadow-strength-to-nan-or-a-negative-number-is-possible-from-script-but-not-from-inspector) Shadows: Prevent setting out-of-range shadow strength
*   [\[731011\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/speedtree-performance-drop-when-using-multiple-speedtree-objects-in-unity-5-dot-3) SpeedTree: Fixed performance regression when lots of Tree components present in the Scene.
*   [\[755097\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/illegal-windows-characters-for-file-names-used-in-player-settings-for-product-name-causes-issues) Standalone player: Fixed Application.persistentDataPath when Product Name contains invalid path character.
*   Substance: Fix to avoid re-generating ProceduralMaterials twice when switching color space.
*   [\[780071\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/substance-customeditor-adding-substance-material-on-to-selected-mesh-throws-an-error) Substance: Fixed case of "Mismatched LayoutGroup.Repaint" error message appearing in console when assigning a ProceduralMaterial to a mesh.
*   [\[776052\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/substances-bake-and-discard-material-is-rendered-completely-black-if-we-choose-bake-and-discard-from-the-inspector) Substance: Fixed case of baked ProceduralTextures being serialized without their baked data.
*   [\[762285\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/substance-getproceduralfloat-and-getproceduralcolor-returns-0-values) Substance: Fixed case of GetProceduralXYZ returning 0 when used with an input's label instead of its identifier.
*   Substance: Fixed case of normal maps textures being incorrectly processed when used as image inputs to a ProceduralMaterial.
*   [\[779574\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/substances-remain-isprocessing-slash-generating-forever) Substance: Fixed case of ProceduralMaterials being stuck in "Generating..." state when leaving playmode, as they are being computed
*   Substance: Fixed corner cases of outputs not being impacted by any input not being generated
*   [\[779560\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/substance-crashes-calling-proceduralmaterial-dot-isproceduralpropertyvisible) Substance: Fixed crash in VisibleIf expression evaluation, caused by looking up an input by label instead of by identifier.
*   [\[781118\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/substance-crash-when-undoing-standard-shader-change-to-procedural-material) Substance: Fixed crash when undoing a modification of the shader assigned to a ProceduralMaterial.
*   Substance: ProceduralTextures being cached to disk/flash now have their size correctly taken into account when querying Caching.spaceOccupied.
*   [\[776803\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/standalone-long-delay-when-switching-scenes-in-standalone-build) Substance: Speeded up the processing of BakeAndDiscard materials when loading scenes.
*   Templates: Fixed whitespaces in Editor Tests template
*   [\[741344\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/speedtree-crash-changing-wind-zone-mode-to-spherical) Terrain: Fixed crash when using SpeedTree wind with SpeedTree trees painted on terrain.
*   [\[736726\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/code-created-terraindata-marked-with-hideflags-dot-dontsave-crashes-editor-on-exit) Terrain: TerrainData marked as DontSave no longer crashes the Editor on quit.
*   [\[730899\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-of-tree-depends-on-the-color-of-the-fog) TreeEditor: TreeBaked textures are no longer tinted to current fog color.
*   [\[749289\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-project-with-only-a-single-icon-layer-set-cannot-be-built-in-xcode) tvOS: Duplicate another image layer when not all are defined
*   [\[753925\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-rendering-path-cannot-be-changed-for-apple-tv-builds) tvOS: Fix rendering path selector in player settings
*   [\[776446\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-native-input-fields-cant-be-used-with-a-gamepad) tvOS: Fix to enable game controller in tvOS on-screen keyboard.
*   [\[749311\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-ios-target-version-enum-displayed-in-tvos-player-settings) tvOS: Fix to separate tvOS SDK and OS version settings from iOS.
*   tvOS: Fixed issues with Xcode plugin installation when it is done by tvOS platform support.
*   [\[739883\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-calling-playersettings-dot-getscriptingdefinesymbolsforgroup-buildtargetgroup-dot-tvos-fails) tvOS: Fixed SetScriptingDefineSymbolsForGroup for tvOS.
*   [\[747537\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-clicking-menu-button-while-a-video-is-playing-always-closes-the-app) tvOS: Menu button will now be disabled when playing video if allowExitToHome is disabled.
*   tvOS: Movie playing is now enabled on tvOS.
*   tvOS: tvOS platform support installation is now independent from iOS platform support.
*   [\[736161, 742081\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/recttranfrom-values-of-prefab-with-canvas-are-lost-after-instantiation) UI: Added a delay to calling UpdateRectTransform when Canvas is created. An update changed the behavior prior to 5.2 which will cause issues for many users who have nested canvases that are created using instantiate, as the RectTransform was updated before they could re-parent the Canvas. With a delay, we maintain the previous behavior and also keep the original fix.
*   UI: Added fix so that the placeholder text is enabled when the InputField is deactivated and the text is empty.
*   \[73009, 6745699\] UI: Added validation and character limit to the set of the InputField text property.
*   [\[605596\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/creating-buttons-during-runtime-makes-the-label-text-empty) UI: Change to assign default font to text/button text created in the editor when playing. Previously labels were empty in such cases.
*   UI: Change to only process mouse input if there is a mouse present within the StandAloneInputModule.
*   [\[775637\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-elements-become-invisible-after-scrolling-graphics-option-for-the-element) UI: Change to reemitt during the repaint loop, due to world space canvasses not using cameras to render. This fixes a case of UI Elements becoming invisible after scrolling "Graphics" option for the element.
*   [\[787563\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-interactablestates-while-deactivating-eventsystem-causes-nullreferenceexception) UI: Change to shield Selectable in case of a null EventSystem.current, fixing case of NullReferenceException being thrown when Changing InteractableStates while Deactivating EventSystem.
*   [\[758873\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-dropdown-coroutine-couldnt-be-started) UI: Ensure the dropdown component is enabled before trying to start the coroutine
*   UI: Fixed a bug in Unity Editor's DelayedTextField where it was losing edit progress when moving focus to a checkbox or dropdown.
*   [\[738249\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentcache-dot-tidyassemblytypename-allocates-lots-of-memory) UI: Fixed ArgumentCache.TidyAssemblyTypeName allocating memory every time. It is now alloc-free, except for the first time deserializing deprecated data.
*   [\[762080\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-wsa-wp81-deleting-text-from-input-field-throws-argumentoutofrange-exception) UI: Fixed ArgumentOutOfRange exception sometimes being thrown when editing InputField on mobile.
*   [\[764711\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-ui-canvasrenderer-synctransform-when-playing-scene-after-editing-script) UI: Fixed deselection of selectable when set to not-interactable.
*   [\[742140\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/iap-when-unityengine-dot-ui-dot-button-dot-interactable-is-set-to-true-button-displays-non-interactable-button-colors) UI: Fixed first color crossfade tween cancelling subsequent tweens while running.
*   UI: Fixed incorrect alpha threshold implementation.
*   UI: Fixed incorrect content validation when assigning text.
*   [\[768754\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/differences-in-text-mesh-inline-images-in-unity-5) UI: Fixed incorrect line height with embedded quads in rich text.
*   UI: Fixed issue that was causing the first line of text to include the ascent offset scaled by line spacing.
*   UI: Fixed issue were LayoutComplete() was called instead of GraphicUpdateComplete() after the GraphicUpdate loop.
*   [\[773533\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-in-unity-gameobject-isactive-after-clicking-play-button) UI: Fixed issue where dirty CanvasRenderers of disabled canvases would be added to the dirtylist, causing a null reference crash.
*   \[764925\] UI: Fixed issue where MovieTextures would not have the texel size set.
*   [\[770804\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/draw-order-of-ui-elements-isnt-consistent) UI: Fixed issue where two elements were incorrectly ordered if they were in the same sorting bucket.
*   [\[771816\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-font-has-wrong-vertical-alignment) UI: Fixed issue where vertical alignment was set to TOP if the line height was less than the text extents.
*   [\[772953\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/movie-texture-does-not-play-on-raw-image) UI: Fixed issue where we would get OOM crash if borders are larger than drawable rect.
*   [\[772943\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofranceexception-when-navigating-ui-elements-after-setting-first-selected) UI: Fixed issue whereby pressing up in an empty textfield would index the first char, causing an out of range exception.
*   [\[783853\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-text-ui-text-in-unity-5-dot-3-4-is-blurry-when-the-width-slash-height-is-not-an-even-number) UI: Fixed issue with blurry text when centering text and pivot set to 0.5 and width/height non-power-of-2.
*   \[778121\] UI: Fixed issue with crash due to dirty renderer being in the dirty list after being destroyed.
*   UI: Fixed issue with null reference error in Graphic on reload.
*   UI: Fixed NaNs introduced in font calculations when the font reports its size as 0.
*   \[769981\] UI: Fixed the issue with the font importer inspector getting dirtied each time it was enabled.
*   UI: Fixed toggle group assignment use to re-register the toggle during onDisable().
*   [\[775987\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/certain-font-text-is-not-being-displayed-in-the-correct-position) UI: Fonts now report a proper descent value which means we can the calculate bottom extent independent of internal leading.
*   [\[765232\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/instantiating-ui-objects-during-runtime-with-localscale-set-to-0-and-increasing-it-next-frame-disables-some-of-the-elements) UI: If the InverseMatrix of the canvas changes we need to dirty the batch to redraw at correct location
*   [\[741751\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/build-canvas-elements-are-placed-incorrectly-when-setting-non-native-resolution-in-standalone-build) UI: Multiple display support disabled on all platforms except WiiU and 3DS. This will be re-enabled once the non-native resolution bug is fixed.
*   \[778280\] UI: Removed functions from onValidate() that cause incorrect behaviour:
    *   Set does nothing as serialized property has already overwritten the value by this point.
    *   PlayEffect can cause other items to go invisible.
*   [\[730100\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inputfield-single-line-text-can-be-put-to-another-line-though-script-using-slash-n) UI: Strip \\n,\\t from InputField text when in single line mode
*   [\[730100\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inputfield-single-line-text-can-be-put-to-another-line-though-script-using-slash-n) UI: Strip \\n,\\t from InputField text's new value (rather than the old one) when in single line mode.
*   UI: World space canvas now emits to each camera in the scene instead of directly to the world.
*   \[776517\] UWP: Universal Windows Platform: Fixed issue whereby having many generic types in the project would make the .NET Native compiler run out of memory.
*   [\[769777\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-at-haverunningvsproopenfile-when-opening-vs-via-console-double-click-when-the-source-is-not-available) Visual Studio: Fixed crash when opening VisualStudio + improved VisualStudio startup performance
*   \[761981\] VR: Exposed Camera.targetEye to script for Virtual reality Applications.
*   \[765997\] VR: Fix Screen Orientation on GearVR applications.
*   \[783787\] VR: Fixed case of VRSettings.supportedDevices not populating until a VR device is loaded.
*   \[713551\] VR: Fixed issue whereby using \[Deferred Rendering + MSAA + Image Effect - blur\] would render a black screen.
*   [\[766124\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vr-unity-logo-in-splash-screen-is-stretched-in-vr-enabled-players) VR: Fixed Splash Screen Aspect ratio issues for VR Applications.
*   [\[799367\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-build-fails-even-on-empty-new-project) WebGL: Correct WebGL build in the Windows editor.
*   [\[770266\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-build-fails-with-uncaught-incorrect-header-check-on-chrome) WebGL: Fixed 'Uncaught incorrect header check' error.
*   [\[747236\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-backspace-in-imgui-input-field-navigating-away-from-page) WebGL: Fixed backspace in IMGUI input field navigating away from page.
*   [\[746302\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/surface-standard-shader-artifacts-when-loaded-from-asset-bundle) WebGL: Fixed building shaders correctly for WebGL in AssetBundles.
*   [\[744374\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-build-chrome-cursormode-dot-auto-position-is-always-the-same) WebGL: Fixed cursor hotspot coordinates when hotspot is outside the cursor area.
*   \[771984\] WebGL: Fixed issues launching WebGL content in iframes when third-party cookies are disabled.
*   WebGL: Fixed WebGL 2.0 support to run on browsers implementing the final WebGL 2.0 specifications.
*   [\[740182\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-inconsistent-behaviour-between-chrome-slash-safari-and-firefox-when-pressing-up-slash-down-arrow-keys) WebGL: Fixed webpage scrolling in Chrome/Safari/Edge when pressing arrow keys.
*   [\[752150\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-xbox-controller-default-mapping-not-matching-buttons-slash-axis) WebGL: Fixed XBox controller default mapping not matching buttons/axis.
*   [\[749303\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/webgl-playscheduled-and-setscheduledendtime-have-no-effect-clip-just-plays) WebGL: Implemented AudioSource.PlayScheduled and AudioSource.SetScheduledEndTime.
*   WebGL: Improved performance of floating point math in Chrome.
*   WebGL: WebGL: Fixed input y coordinates being off by one.
*   [\[691571\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lockreloadassemblies-is-not-working-correctly) Window Management: Fixed LockReloadAssemblies is not working correctly
*   [\[608901\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/minimizing-unity-changes-the-size-of-maximized-unity-windows) Window Management: Fixed Minimizing unity changes the size of maximized unity windows
*   [\[771326\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-build-and-run-on-option-is-greyed-out-selecting-universal-10-sdk) Windows: "Build & Run On" option will now work correctly with Universal Windows 10 Apps (it is no longer greyed out)
*   \[746437\] Windows: Fixed incorrect display of Korean characters on Windows 10 (if Korean language pack is not installed) and Windows Phone 10. Unity will now fallback to "Malgun Gothic" font.
*   Windows: Properly handle non-ASCII command line arguments in Editor and standalone.
*   [\[771541\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-screen-dot-currentresolution-returns-window-screen-resolution-instead-of-desktop-resolution) Windows: Screen.currentResolution() now returns desktop resolution instead of window screen resolution when application is in windowed mode.
*   [\[742250\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/input-dot-touchsupported-always-returns-false-on-windows) Windows: Windows Standalone: Input.touchSupported will return a correct value.
*   Windows Phone 8: Added obsolete attribute for BuildTargetGroup.WP8 and BuildTarget.WP8Player.
*   [\[765773\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-execution-freezes-when-the-title-bar-is-grabbed-even-when-runinbackground-is-checked) Windows Standalone: Game execution will no longer freeze while dragging window via title bar.
*   [\[789439\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tiles-short-name-is-limited-to-13-chars-instead-of-40) Windows Store: "Short names" for tiles can now be up to 40 characters long (instead of 13 as was the case previously).
*   Windows Store: Added docs for PlayerSettings.WSA in Scripting Reference.
*   Windows Store: Application will exit without crashing when calling Application.Quit
*   [\[752546\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/directory-dot-createdirectory-fails-if-path-has-all-slash-slashes) Windows Store: Directory.CreateDirectory() no longer fails if path contains all forward slashes.
*   [\[770092\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-cant-disable-portrait-orientation-splash-screen-in-windows-phone-8-dot-1-universal-app) Windows Store: Extended splash screen placement in Windows Phone 8.1 will now match the system splash screen placement.
*   [\[747549\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-uwp-unet-internet-matchmaker-causes-accessviolationexception) Windows Store: Fix AccessViolationException when initializing matchmaking in UNet
*   \[754312\] Windows Store: fix build & run using il2cpp backend
*   \[761936\] Windows Store: Fix serialization error, Unity will no longer serialize fields in Windows Store Apps which are of the same type as the class where this field is located, for ex., if you have a class Test and you have a field inside public Test MyField;. This behavior was already present in Editor, but not in Windows Store Apps.
*   [\[774815\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-wsa-serialization-issue-listing-enums) Windows Store: Fix to exclude abstract classes from serialization (as is the case for all other platforms).
*   Windows Store: Fixed a rare error message "unknown type xxx detected. Using reflection to gather its type information." when yielding IEnumerators in Coroutines on .NET scripting backend.
*   Windows Store: Fixed an assert happening during mesh compression.
*   Windows Store: Fixed antialising when calling Screen.SetResolution on Universal Windows 10 Apps.
*   [\[762780\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-assembly-converter-failure) Windows Store: Fixed AssemblyConverter failures related to generic parameters. Errors will give more information in the output, making it easier to pinpoint the cause.
*   \[776483\] Windows Store: Fixed build and run when Unicode characters with diacritics are used in product name.
*   \[754533\] Windows Store: Fixed build failure (rrw failure) when calling methods with System.Numerics.Matrix4x4 as parameter.
*   \[781994\] Windows Store: Fixed build failure with assembly resolution exception when there's a plugin that has its plugin importer settings set to specific Windows SDK (as opposed to Any SDK) and building using Universal 8.1 SDK.
*   \[789538\] Windows Store: Fixed case of Build & Run not working for Universal 8.1 solution.
*   [\[779572\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-eventtype-dot-scrollwheel-is-not-detected) Windows Store: Fixed case of mouse scroll not generating GUI events and being less sensitive than on other platforms.
*   [\[774164\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-syncvar-not-synchronizing-player-slash-client-on-uwp-platform) Windows Store: Fixed certain UnityEngine.Networking features not working when Unity C# projects are enabled.
*   \[750001\] Windows Store: Fixed compilation error when using .NET 4 plugin without placeholder and compilation override None.
*   [\[755473\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-ngui-touch-screen-keyboard-issue) Windows Store: Fixed crash in TouchScreenKeyboard when any members are used immediately after Open()
*   Windows Store: Fixed DirectoryInfo.FullName on 8.1
*   \[775931\] Windows Store: Fixed duplicate tab key in XAML elements whenever Unity is running with enabled input.
*   Windows Store: Fixed exception while marshalling UnityEngine.NavMeshTriangulation.
*   Windows Store: Fixed marshaling of UnityEngine.HumanDescription: previously the field hasTranslationDoF was not marshaled.
*   [\[786889\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-changing-terrain-texture-at-runtime-getting-visual-artifacts) Windows Store: Fixed marshaling of UnityEngine.SplatPrototype: previously fields specularMetallic and smoothness were not marshaled. Because of this terrains would sometimes be rendered incorrectly.
*   [\[744936\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-touchscreenkeyboard-dot-open-doesnt-open-touch-screen-keyboard) Windows Store: Fixed on-screen keyboard occasionally not opening.
*   Windows Store: Fixed rare error "Incorrect hashcode" which sometimes could cause a crash.
*   Windows Store: Fixed Screen.SetResolution with fullscreen true on SDK 8.1; previously when antialising was set to 0, you would get a black screen.
*   [\[769109\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/errors-when-building-for-windows-store-with-universal-10-sdk-when-splash-screen-is-set) Windows Store: Fixed support for JPEG images for tiles, splash screen etc.
*   \[746301\] Windows Store: Fixed Unity players not loading on "Windows N" versions.
*   [\[730289\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-x64-platform-application-throws-exceptions-in-the-output) Windows Store: fixed WheelCollider on x64 (NullReferenceException occurring).
*   [\[745355\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-a-concurrent-or-interleaved-operation-changed-the-state-of-the-object-invalidating-this-operation) Windows Store: Fixed WinRTLegacy stream replacements unreliability with large data.
*   Windows Store: Fixed www.error return result: previously it would return only an error code, but now it will also contain the error message returned by the server.
*   \[741518\] Windows Store: MainPage background color will now be set to match the splash screen background color.
*   \[740854\] Windows Store: modify template sources while still in StagingArea
*   [\[751207\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-surface-tablet-doesnt-respect-orientation-settings-when-set-to-tablet-mode) Windows Store: Populate autorotation settings to screen.
*   [\[759166\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-wsa-runinbackground-doesnt-work-on-uwp-wsa) Windows Store: RunInBackground option will be respected when application window looses focus, and if enabled, the application will keep updating. Note: if application window is minimized it will be still paused, because OS suspends the application.
*   [\[748845\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/winrt-screen-dot-resolutions-returns-window-size-rather-than-monitor-resolution) Windows Store: Screen.resolutions will return a valid value.
*   [\[759313\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-wsa-systeminfo-dot-devicetype-always-returns-desktop) Windows Store: SystemInfo.deviceType will now correctly report Handheld when running on Windows Phone 10.
*   [\[730023\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uwp-wsa-xbox-one-controller-recognized-as-xbox-360) Windows Store: Unity will no longer report XBox One controllers as Xbox 360 controllers.
*   [\[741458\]](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wsa-webcamtexture-stops-playback-after-minimazing-application) Windows Store: WebCamera will now correctly continue working after minimizing/maximizing application.
*   \[752581\] Windows Store: When building to Universal Windows Platforms, project.json will not be overwritten if the contents inside were modified.