### Improvements

*   Asset Database: Added a new API for getting asset information without loading asset into memory.
*   Graphics: Updated tooltip test for "Box Projection", "Box Offset" & "Box Size".
*   Lighting: Renamed popup menu item from "Default scene parameter" to "Scene Default Parameters".
*   Substance: Improved substance assets processing when switching platforms, upgrading a project and building.
*   tvOS: Added "Require Extended Game Controller" option to player settings.

### Fixes

*   ([819905](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animation-preview-doesnt-preview-animation-when-model-is-dragged-to-preview-area)) - Animation: The Animation preview will correctly display a preview animation when a model is dragged to the preview area.
*   (832271) - Audio: Fixed memory leak when quickly loading and unloading lots of audio assets.
*   (834100, 833996) - Canvas: Fixed a regression introduced in 5.4.0p4 where non-native fullscreen player appeared darker when Canvas was present, in Linear color space.
*   ([814282](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/projector-gets-drawn-two-times-when-transparent-object-is-in-the-scene)) - Graphics: Fixed the issue of projectors rendering twice if transparent objects are in the scene.
*   (827364) - Graphics: Fixed a rare deadlock that can happen when graphics jobs are enabled.
*   (815783) - IL2CPP: Allow now Monitor.TryEnter to correctly obtain a previously taken lock that has been released, which did not work in some cases.
*   (826624) - IL2CPP: Correct the stack state handling during code conversion for some box opcodes.
*   (834376) - IL2CPP: Removed an unnecessary assert when GC.Collect(1) is called. The call will still have no impact though.
*   (none) - IOS: Fixed an iOS 10 warning for improper use of runloop.
*   (830528) - IOS: Fixed the Remote notification detection code.
*   (830273) - Metal: Fixed grab pass combined with image effects appears darker.
*   (818563) - Metal: Fixed an issue whereby view was not scaling properly when using Screen.SetResolution in fullscreen mode.
*   (822217) - Substance: Fixed an asset import crash.
*   ([820301](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-after-selecting-a-substance-material-once-build-platform-is-switched)) - Substance: Fixed a crash when switching build platform.
*   ([820162](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wp8-dot-1-uwp-incorrect-application-dot-systemlanguage-returned)) - UAP: Fixed an incorrect language being returned when system language was Spanish(Argentina).
*   (832104) - UAP: Fixed the issue of incorrect resolution being reported when the composition scale changed and the game window was minimized.
*   ([818294](http://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-on-ui-prepareoutput-when-canvas-is-activated-slash-deactivated)) - UI: Fixed the Canvas related crash when some elements are being deleted.

Revision: 139dac7766f0