### Known Issues in 6000.3.0a2

- 3D Physics: Crash on mono-2.0-bdwgc.dll when instantiating a Prefab with Rigidbody after loading a scene from an Asset Bundle
    ([UUM-108799](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-windowsvideomedia-getvideoframeatindex-when-instantiating-a-prefab-with-rigidbody-after-loading-a-scene-from-an-asset-bundle))

- Asset - Database: Warning about UniversalRenderPipelineGlobalSettings into URP Samples package
    ([UUM-111391](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warning-about-universalrenderpipelineglobalsettings-into-urp-samples-package))

- Cloud Diagnostics: [Android]Crash on lib/arm64/libil2cpp.so when Unity Analytics and Engine Code stripping are enabled
    ([UUM-95408](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-on-lib-slash-arm64-slash-libil2cpp-dot-so-when-unity-analytics-and-engine-code-stripping-are-enabled))

- DirectX12: Crash with multiple stacktraces when rendering large models
    ([UUM-111263](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-with-multiple-stacktraces-when-rendering-large-models))

- Editor: Editor: Fixed an issue where the Editor would crash if you called AssetBundle.UnloadAsync\(...\) and then immediately called AssetBundle.LoadFromFileAsync\(...\) that pointed to the same bundle you were in the process of unloading.
    (UUM-108651)    <br>*Fixed in 6000.3.0a3.*

- Editor: Fixed for macOS editor crash that could occur during specific situations when entering playmode.
    ([UUM-109764](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-nsapplication-endmodalsession-when-entering-play-mode-in-a-specific-project))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.3.0a3.*

- GI: Fix issue causing crash when no valid lightmap parameters are assigned.
    ([UUM-111154](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-inputextraction-extractootssnapshot-when-opening-scene))    <br>*Fixed in 6000.3.0a3.*

- Graphics Device Features: Graphics.RenderMeshIndirect does not issue multi-draw rendering commands when using a graphics API capable of multi-draw commands
    ([UUM-91617](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graphics-dot-rendermeshindirect-does-not-issue-multi-draw-rendering-commands-when-using-a-graphics-api-capable-of-multi-draw-commands))

- Hub: Licensing Client fails to launch when opening Unity Hub
    ([UUM-103995](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/licensing-client-fails-to-launch-when-opening-unity-hub-1))

- Hub: Licensing Client fails to launch when opening Unity Hub (licensing client path is not found)
    ([UUM-103996](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/licensing-client-fails-to-launch-when-opening-unity-hub-licensing-client-path-is-not-found))

- Hub: Licensing Client fails to launch when opening Unity Hub (licensing client path is not found) [Hub version 3.13]
    ([UUM-110923](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/licensing-client-fails-to-launch-when-opening-unity-hub-licensing-client-path-is-not-found-hub-version-3-dot-13))

- Metal: [iOS] The Player freezes and "Execution of the command buffer was aborted due to an error during execution." error is continuously logged
    ([UUM-111494](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ios-the-player-freezes-and-execution-of-the-command-buffer-was-aborted-due-to-an-error-during-execution-dot-error-is-continuously-logged))

- SRP Foundation: Gizmos are not rendering in Game view
    ([UUM-104383](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gizmos-are-not-rendering-in-game-view))

- SRP XR: Custom Skybox shader does not render all Skybox's faces in Standalone Player for Meta Quest when 'Allow Material Override' is enabled in ShaderGraph
    ([UUM-107763](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-skybox-shader-does-not-render-all-skyboxs-faces-in-standalone-player-for-meta-quest-when-allow-material-override-is-enabled-in-shadergraph))

- SRP XR: GameObjects are transparent when a custom fog renderer feature is enabled
    ([UUM-104832](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobjects-are-transparent-when-a-custom-fog-renderer-feature-is-enabled))



### Preview of Final 6000.3.0a2 Release Notes

#### Features

- Android: Added app category support to allow users to retain Android 15 orientation and rotation behavior when running on Android 16.

- Editor: Added new functionality to the Editor dialog box API that will allow for icon choices, and opt out choices. Refer to EditorDialog in the Unity Documentation for more details.

- Editor: Added performance indicators to the Windows Editor launch window. These indicators display when the Editor is built from source or the *Developer Mode* Editor preference is enabled.

- Editor: Added the ability to dock overlays as full-height dynamic panels in the Scene view.

- Editor: The main Toolbar of the Editor is now extensible and customizable.

- Engine Diagnostics: Engine Diagnostics:<br>
    - Added options in the Project Settings and Build Profile windows to enable or disable engine diagnostics data collection. This feature is enabled by default in new Unity 6.2 projects.<br>
    Scripting:<br>
    - Added `ConsentState.AnalyticsIntent` and `ConsentState.AdsIntent` APIs. Use these APIs to define the purposes of data processing.

- GI: Added a new lightmap packing algorithm based on the third-party xAtlas library. This packer is now the default for new scenes, while older scenes will automatically continue to use the previous packer.

- Graphics: Added Split Graphics Jobs support to Metal.

- Graphics: Added support for hit shaders in .raytrace files. The GPU executes the hit shaders by default if the expected Shader Pass \(specified using `RayTracingShader.SetShaderPass`\) is not found in .shader files used by geometries in the acceleration structure.

- IL2CPP: Backport metadata reductions: reduce size of string literal data and type definition data by computing the length of each string during deserialization, removing `Il2CppTypeDefinition::elementTypeIndex`, and encoding the elementType in `Il2CppTypeDefinition::parentIndex`.

- Package Manager: Added a clear warning message for users when a package has an invalid signature.

- Package Manager: Added Errors and Warnings section in the sidebar.

- Package Manager: Added the `pinnedPackages` optional property to the project manifest. This feature forces specified direct dependencies to use their exact manifest versions during package resolution and project update.

- Profiler: Added the Overview feature to the Highlights Profiler module.

- Shadergraph: Added a template browser accessible through the Create menu. Users can designate any Shader Graph asset as a template in the Asset Inspector.

- Shadergraph: Added support for additional UV channels where applicable.

- SRP Core: Added the ability to connect to player builds in the Render Graph Viewer.

- Text: Added BR tag for ATG.

- Text: Added Sprite tag to ATG.

- UI Toolkit: Added new filters to UI Toolkit, allowing you to apply tint, opacity, invert, grayscale, sepia, blur, contrast, and hue-rotate effects on `VisualElement` objects.

- UI Toolkit: Implemented dashed pattern in Painter2D Strokes.

- Universal RP: Added Kawase and Dual filtering options for Bloom. These filters trade quality for performance and are primarily intended for mobile platforms:<br>
    * Kawase filtering is optimized for smaller resolutions.<br>
    * Dual filtering is suitable for larger resolutions.<br>
    * Gaussian filtering remains the best choice for quality and stability.<br>
    Each filter requires unique settings to achieve visual parity.

- VFX Graph: Added support for `BaseColorMapMode` in unlit output.

- Web: Added a button for connecting to the Unity Profiler in the Default and PWA Web templates.

- Web: Added a Web Profiling dialog to start a Unity Profiler session and show the profiler's IP address and port.



#### Improvements

- 2D: Added tooltips to properties for the TilesetImporter editor.

- Animation: Added profiler markers to PlayableDirector and PlayableOutputs to facilitate profiling for Timelines.

- Animation: Improved evaluation performance of Animation Components which are animating large amounts of properties.

- Animation: Improved memory allocations related to Animator callbacks, leading to improved performance.
    (UUM-107293)

- Apple TV: CAMetalDisplayLink is now enabled by default.

- DX12: You can set ID3D12GraphicsCommandList::IASetVertexBuffers once instead of several times in a loop inside GfxDeviceD3D12Base::DrawBuffersCommon.
    (UUM-109282)

- Editor: Added a tooltip to the Create button in the Project Browser. The tooltip reads: "Create new Asset."

- Editor: Added new Editor asset icons for Texture2DArrays, Texture3Ds, and CubemapArrays.

- Editor: Added support for generating `CubemapArray` thumbnails in `AssetPreview`.

- Editor: Added two new states to the dynamic panel: toolbar and collapsed.

- Editor: Improved Editor startup time by deferring package manager setup until licensing is ready.
    (UUM-99942)

- Editor: Modified the Editor Launch Screen close button on Linux to dim and become non-interactible after a user selects it.

- Editor: Modified the Editor Launch Screen close button on macOS to dim and become non-interactive after you select it.

- Editor: Removed the *Reset Size* option from the Overlay contextual menu for overlays that are not actually able to be resized by the user.

- Editor: Updated code generation option labels in `PlayerSettings` to better reflect their purpose:<br>
    * Changed *Faster runtime* to *Optimize for runtime speed*.<br>
    * Changed *Faster \(smaller\) builds* to *Optimize for code size and build time*.

- GI: Now ask the user to save any unsaved scenes before baking reflection probes in HDRP.

- GI: Reflection probe transform can now be rotated in URP.

- Graphics: Optimized Skinned Mesh Renderer matrix calculations to enable Unity to parallelize these calculations, even when using the non-optimized import setting.
    (UUM-105251)

- IL2CPP: Made a small performance improvement in isinst checks generic types with generic variance.

- Package Manager: Improved time for the Package Export window to show up.

- Physics: Improved the tooltips for the *PhysicsSettings* window.
    (UUM-105527)

- Physics: Renamed the API parameter `rot` to `rotation` in `Rigidbody.MoveRotation()` to ensure consistency with `Rigidbody.MovePosition()`.
    (UUM-104638)

- Player: Removed code that supported passing project settings objects \(such as PlayerSettings and QualitySettings\) to `Instantiate()` or loading them from AssetBundles. This change reduces binary size across all platforms, with a reduction of approximately 100KB on Web platforms.

- Plugins: Upgraded DLSS3 \(v3.7.2\) to latest DLSS4 \(v310.3.0\): added DLAA quality mode &amp; DLSS Render Preset options under HDRP Dynamic resolution DLSS settings.

- Profiler: Added a range of UX feedback collected during additional testing of the Profiler Overview feature.

- Profiler: Added support for native allocation call stacks in Memory Profiler 1.1.6. Use the `-enable-memoryprofiler-callstacks` command-line argument to enable this feature on desktop and mobile platforms.

- Profiler: The Profiler Overview's lists of top markers now combine marker instances within a frame and link to the CPU Hierarchy where appropriate.

- QNX: Multidisplay monitor commandline argument.

- Shadergraph: Added an option to Custom Interpolators to change the interpolation type, such as no interpolation or centroid.

- Shadergraph: Added both preference and setting path for variant limit exceeded warning message.
    ([UUM-104591](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-wrong-setting-path-in-tooltip-for-exceeded-variant-limit))

- Shadergraph: Added the ability to promote subgraph properties to the final shader.

- Shadergraph: Addressed an issue where the far right toolbar dropdown was difficult to interact with.
    ([UUM-105177](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-more-options-dropdown-button-does-not-open-the-dropdown-when-clicked-all-the-way-to-the-right-of-the-button))

- Shadergraph: Improved resizing behavior for custom property and function inspectors.
    ([UUM-103867](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-property-and-function-labels-at-the-top-of-the-graph-inspector-go-out-of-bounds-and-are-not-truncated-when-string-is-long))

- Shadergraph: Improved shader variant exceeded message to direct users to both project settings and preferences.
    ([UUM-104591](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-wrong-setting-path-in-tooltip-for-exceeded-variant-limit))

- Shadergraph: Improved spacing of a certain toggle on the shader graph preferences page.
    ([UUM-104088](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/checkbox-collides-with-text-in-shader-graph-preferences-settings))

- Shadergraph: Modified the Heatmap asset help button so it now redirects to Shader Graph documentation.
    ([UUM-103974](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wrong-documentation-link-for-the-custom-heatmap-values-shadergraph-assets))

- Shadergraph: Subgraphs with a non-previewable first output now default to having no node preview.
    ([UUM-102007](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadergraph-error-is-thrown-when-the-first-subgraph-output-isnt-previewable))

- Shaders: Improved build time for shaders with multiple subshaders and passes but few variants.

- SRP Core: Added backbuffer as target support for AddBlitPass Render Graph utility.

- SRP Core: Added validation for the AddBlitPass function to ensure proper handling of null source textures.

- SRP Core: Optimized the AddBlitPass utility to use AddCopyPass when applicable.

- SRP Core: Updated the Render Graph Viewer to automatically refresh when changes occur in the render graph execution.

- UI Toolkit: Added the ability to change the TreeView item indent with a custom style property called `--unity-tree-view-indent`.
    ([UUM-44460](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/treeview-indent-width-does-not-correspond-to-the-treeview-arrow-element-width-and-remains-8ptx-wider-when-compared-to-the-treeview-arrow-elements-width))

- UI Toolkit: Improved layout cache management.
    (UUM-105812)

- UI Toolkit: Migrated various control tests to the new UITK test framework.

- UI Toolkit: Upgraded USS parser. This includes more robust handling of selectors and tokens, with stricter validation and clearer error reporting. This upgrade may expose previously unnoticed invalid USS in your projects.
    ([UUM-102246](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-style-is-inconsistent-when-using-style-classes-named-using-digits))

- Universal RP: Added API documentation for SetRenderAttachment/SetRenderAttachmentDepth/SetInputAttachment to specify the limitation when using the same render texture with different depth slices at different render target indices.
    ([UUM-103981](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/invalidoperationexception-occurs-when-binding-3d-rendertexture-or-2d-rendertexturearray-as-multiple-render-texture-in-rendergraph))

- Universal RP: Small optimization: removed unneeded intermediate textures for Forward+ in Editor.

- VFX Graph: Improved CPU performance by reducing internal dereferencing of `PPtr`.

- VFX Graph: Improved VFX default resources.

- VFX Graph: Users can now insert a template into an existing graph at a chosen initial position to avoid nodes from overlapping.

- VFX Graph: VFX Graph: Enabled sticky notes to be added to groups and improved the color theme.



#### API Changes

- Animation: Added: Added a new API to reset an Animator or AnimatorControllerPlayable to its default state, in order to simplify pooling of animated characters.

- Asset Import: Obsoleted: `OnOpenAsset` using an int as the InstanceID is now obsolete. Use `OnOpenAsset` using `EntityId` instead.

- Asset Pipeline: Added: Added FindAssetGUIDs methods that return an array of GUIDs instead of strings.

- Asset Pipeline: Added: Added LoadAssetByGUID method that accepts a GUID as an input argument.

- Editor: Added: Added the ability to filter out overlays from EditorWindows.

- Editor: Added: Added UnityEditor.EditorDialog, a new and improved way of displaying dialog boxes to users. See EditorDialog in the Unity documentation for more details.

- Editor: Changed: Provided a builder API for the Blit Pass.

- Editor: Changed: `Selection.instanceIDs` is now obsolete. Use `Selection.entityIds`, which is based around `EntityId`, instead.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.CanOpenAssetInEditor\(int\) is obsolete. Please use AssetDatabase.CanOpenAssetInEditor\(EntityId\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.Contains\(int\) is obsolete. Please use AssetDatabase.Contains\(EntityId\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.GetAssetPath\(int\) is obsolete. Please use AssetDatabase.GetAssetPath\(EntityId\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.InstanceIDsToGUIDs\(\) is obsolete. Please use AssetDatabase.EntityIdsToGUIDs\(\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.IsForeignAsset\(int\) is obsolete. Please use AssetDatabase.IsForeignAsset\(EntityId\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.IsMainAsset\(int\) is obsolete. Please use AssetDatabase.IsMainAsset\(EntityId\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.IsNativeAsset\(int\) is obsolete. Please use AssetDatabase.IsNativeAsset\(EntityId\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.IsSubAsset\(int\) is obsolete. Please use AssetDatabase.IsSubAsset\(EntityId\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.OpenAsset\(int\) InstanceID versions are obsolete. Please use the AssetDatabase.OpenAsset\(EntityId\) EntityId versions instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Deprecated: AssetDatabase.TryGetGUIDAndLocalFileIdentifier\(int instanceID, out string guid, out long localId\) is obsolete. Please use AssetDatabase.TryGetGUIDAndLocalFileIdentifier\(EntityId entityId, out string guid, out long localId\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `EditorCameraUtils.GetRenderersFilteringResults(ReadOnlySpan<int>, Span<bool>)` is now obsolete, use `GetRenderersFilteringResults(ReadOnlySpan<EntityId>, Span<bool>) ` which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `EditorCameraUtils.GetRenderersHiddenResultBits(ReadOnlySpan<int>, Span<ulong>)` is now obsolete, use `GetRenderersHiddenResultBits(ReadOnlySpan<EntityId>, Span<ulong>) ` which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `HandleUtility.getEntitiesForAuthoringObject` is now obsolete, use `getEntitiesForAuthoringObjectV2` which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `HandleUtility.GetPickingIncludeExcludeList` is now obsolete, use `GetPickingIncludeExcludeListV2` which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `HandleUtility.GetSelectionOutlineIncludeExcludeList` is now obsolete, use `GetSelectionOutlineIncludeExcludeListV2` which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `HierarchyDropHandler` is now obsolete, use `HierarchyDropHandlerV2` which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `HierarchyProperty` is now obsolete. Use `HierarchyIterator` which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `ISceneSearchEngine` is now obsolete. Use `ISceneSearchEngineV2`. This uses the new `HierarchyIterator` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `PickingIncludeExcludeListt` is now obsolete, use `PickingIncludeExcludeListV2` which is based around `EntityId` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `ProjectBrowserDropHandler` is now obsolete, use `ProjectBrowserDropHandlerV2`. This uses the new `HierarchyIterator` instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `Selection.activeInstanceID` is now obsolete. Use `Selection.activeEntityId`, which is based around `EntityId`, instead.

- Editor: Obsoleted: `Selection.Contains(int)` is now obsolete. Use `Selection.Contains(EntityId)`, which is based around `EntityId`, instead.

- GI: Obsoleted: Marked the Experimental.Lightmapping CustomBake API as obsolete, Please use UnityEngine.LightTransport.IProbeIntegrator API to bake environment occlusion for an array of positions instead:<br>
    public static void SetCustomBakeInputs\(Vector4\[\] inputData, int sampleCount\)<br>
    public static extern void SetCustomBakeInputs\(ReadOnlySpan&lt;Vector4&gt; inputData, int sampleCount\)<br>
    public static bool GetCustomBakeResults\(Span&lt;Vector4&gt; results\)<br>
    public static bool GetCustomBakeResults\(\[Out\] Vector4\[\] results\)<br>
    public static extern ReadOnlySpan&lt;Vector4&gt; GetCustomBakeResultsNoCopy\(\).

- Graphics: Added: Added support for multi_compile, multi_compile_local and dynamic_branch pragmas in raytrace files. Added new Scripting API methods for setting shader keyword for `RayTracingShader`.

- Graphics: Changed: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.PointLight.instanceID is obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.PointLight.entityId instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Graphics: Deprecated: Deprecate GraphicsFormatUtility.IsPVRTCFormat\(\).

- Graphics: Deprecated: Obsolete Universal Render Pipeline's Compatibility Mode \(Render Graph disabled\) is now hidden behind URP_COMPATIBILITY_MODE define.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.Cookie.cookieID is obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.Cookie.cookieTextureEntityId instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.Cookie.instanceID is obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.Cookie.entityId instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.DirectionalLight.instanceID is obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.DirectionalLight.entityId instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.DiscLight.instanceID is obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.DiscLight.entityId instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.LightDataGI.InitNoBake\(int\) obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.LightDataGI.InitNoBake\(EntityId\) instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.LightDataGI.instanceID is obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.LightDataGI.entityId instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.RectangleLight.instanceID is obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.RectangleLight.entityId instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.SpotLightBoxShape.instanceID is obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.SpotLightBoxShape.entityId instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- Graphics: Obsoleted: UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.SpotLightPyramidShape.instanceID is obsolete. Please use UnityEngine.Experimental.GlobalIllumination.SpotLightPyramidShape.entityId instead. EntityId is the new type for instance IDs and still implicitly casts to and from int for backwards compatibility.

- IMGUI: Obsoleted: Made `TreeView`, `TreeViewItem` and `TreeViewState` obsolete. Use `TreeView<int>` variant instead or `TreeView<EntityId>`, where applicable.

- Physics: Deprecated: Physics.autoSyncTransforms has been deprecated, if you require manual transform synchronization between Transform component data and physics component data please use Physics.SyncTransforms method instead.

- Physics 2D: Deprecated: Physics2D.autoSyncTransforms has been deprecated, if you require manual transform synchronization between Transform component data and physics2d component data please use Physics2D.SyncTransforms method instead.

- Scripting: Added: Added new method `GetChildIndex` on `HierarchyFlattened` and `HierarchyViewModel` classes: retrieve a node's index in its parent children list, using pre-computed data.

- Scripting: Added: Added new method `GetHashCode` on `Hierarchy` class: retrieve the hash code of a node, which can be overridden by the node's type, in its `HierarchyNodeTypeHandler` implementation.

- Scripting: Added: Added new method `SetChildrenNeedsSorting` on `Hierarchy` and `HierarchyCommandList` classes: force a node's children to be considered when executing a sort operation, which is useful when the ordering of nodes changed without setting a sort index.

- Scripting: Added: Added new method `SetDirty` on `Hierarchy` and `HierarchyCommandList` classes: Force an update of the hierarchy, even if no changes are pending. Useful when UI refresh is needed for example.

- Scripting: Added: Added new method `SetEntityIds` on DragAndDropData to allow storing Entity Ids instead of Objects.

- Scripting: Added: Added new method `SortChildrenRecursive` on `Hierarchy` and `HierarchyCommandList`, replaces `SortChildren` with a bool parameter to indicate if the operation is recursive.

- Scripting: Added: Added new methods `BeginFlagsChange` and `EndFlagsChange` on `HierarchyViewModel` to bundle flags change as a single operation. This is useful to avoid unnecessary hierarchy view model updates when multiple flags change operations result in no changes.

- Scripting: Added: Added new methods `GetRoot` and `SetRoot` on the `HierarchyViewModel` class. These methods allow you to get and set a custom root, effectively restricting the visibility to only the nodes under it, without affecting other nodes.

- Scripting: Added: Added new methods `SetFlagsRecursive`, `ClearFlagsRecursive` and `ToggleFlagsRecursive` on `HierarchyViewModel` replacing `SetFlags`, `ClearFlags` and `ToggleFlags` with a bool parameter to indicate if the operation is recursive.

- Scripting: Added: Added new property `ChildIndex` on `HierarchyFlattenedNode` struct: the child's index in its parent children list when the `HierarchyFlattened` was updated.

- Scripting: Added: Added new property `entityIds` on DragAndDrop to allow retrieving Entity Ids instead of Objects.

- Scripting: Added: Added new property `Filtering` on `HierarchyViewModel` indicating if the hierarchy view model is currently filtering the results, meaning a search query is currently set.

- Scripting: Added: Added new struct `HierarchyViewModelFlagsChangeScope` that can be used with a `using` statement to bundle hierarchy view model flags change.

- Scripting: Added: Added new virtual method `GetNodeHashCode` on `HierarchyNodeTypeHandlerBase` class: allows overriding the default computation of a node's unique identifier.

- Scripting: Changed: Introduced a new `SceneHandle` type, which replaces the use of `int` to store a scene handle. For instance, the `Scene.handle` property is now of `SceneHandle` type instead of `int` and might cause a binary compatibility issue. Other APIs still using `int` to represent a scene handle will gradually move to use `SceneHandle` in the future.

- Scripting: Obsoleted: Method `SortChildren(node, recurse)` with a bool parameter on `Hierarchy` and `HierarchyCommandList` is now obsolete. Use `SortChildren(node)` or `SortChildrenRecursive(node)` accordingly.

- Scripting: Obsoleted: Methods `SetFlags`, `ClearFlags` and `ToggleFlags` with a bool parameter to indicate if the operation is recursive are now obsolete. Use the new methods `SetFlagsRecursive`, `ClearFlagsRecursive` or `ToggleFlagsRecursive` accordingly.

- Scripting: Obsoleted: Properties `Hierarchy` and `HierarchyFlattened` on `HierarchyViewModel` are now obsolete and will be removed in a future update. Remove its usage from your code.

- Scripting: Obsoleted: Property `Hierarchy` on `HierarchyFlattened` is now obsolete and will be removed in a future update. Remove its usage from your code.

- Services: Added: Unity Consent: Added a new module with API to set user consent information.

- Shaders: Added: Added a method in ShaderUtil to check whether the given compute shader is compatible with the given shader compilation platform.

- Shaders: Added: Added a method in ShaderUtil to check whether the given shader pass is compatible with the given shader compilation platform.

- SRP Core: Added: Added `SetRayTracingShaderPass` to `ComputeRenderGraphBuilder` and `UnsafeRenderGraphBuilder`.

- SRP Core: Added: Added `SetRenderAttachment`, `SetRenderAttachmentDepth`, and `SetRandomAccessAttachment` to `UnsafeRenderGraphBuilder`.

- SRP Core: Deprecated: Removed the unused forceRelease parameter from the ImportBuffer Render Graph API to align with its resource management philosophy.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added a few selection manipulation utilities in ITextSelection.

- UI Toolkit: Added: Added two new fields to UxmlElementAttribute:<br>
    - visibility: Defaults to "Default" but can be set to "Visible" or "Hidden" to override the default behavior, which hides elements with namespaces starting with Unity, UnityEngine, and UnityEditor.<br>
    - libraryPath: Allows customization of the path where the element is displayed in the Project Library tab.
    ([UUM-104888](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-elements-not-visible-in-ui-builder-when-defined-in-a-namespace-starting-with-unity))

- UI Toolkit: Added: New `supportExpressions` attribute for IntegerField, LongField, FloatField, DoubleFIeld,  UnsignedIntegerField, and UnsignedLongField. This attribute allows you to enable or disable expression evaluation for the field by modifying the set of permitted characters.
    ([UUM-96460](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-toolkit-integerfield-accepts-letters))

- XR: Added: Updated XR Interaction Toolkit \(com.unity.xr.interaction.toolkit\) to version 3.2.0.



#### Changes

- Android: X86_64 target architecture support is limited now. You can still use it, but it might be removed in the future.

- Android: X86_64 target architecture support is limited now. You can still use it, but it might be removed in the future.

- Audio: Made internal changes to FMOD.

- Bug Reporter: Updated the UI of the Bug Reporter to remove the small cross buttons at the end of each text input field.

- Editor: Changed dynamic panel sizes to use pixels instead of percentages.

- Editor: Renamed the *Diagnostics* section in the Preferences menu to *Editor Diagnostics*.

- Editor: The Game view rendering statistics window now displays a warning of incorrect triangle and vertex count when indirect draw calls are issued, such as is the case with GPU Occlusion Culling.
    ([UUM-102572](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/statistics-window-shows-incorrect-information-when-gpu-resident-drawer-and-gpu-occlusion-culling-are-enabled))

- Editor: The shader variant limit option in Shader Graph Project Settings now requires an opt-in override toggle.
    (UUM-108905)

- Editor: Updated the AI toolbar button to also install the Inference Engine.

- Editor: Updated verbose Unity version strings in the *About* window to display a Git commit hash and Git branch name instead of progress and digress numbers.

- Editor: Updated `GatherDependenciesFromSourceFile` to trigger a warning when using `AssetImporter.GetAtPath`.
    (CPN-1363)

- GI: The OpenCL based GPU lightmapper is now the default for new projects and new lighting settings assets.

- Graphics: The ETC legacy compressor has been removed from the Editor. Projects that were still using the ETC legacy compressor will now use the default ETC compressors.

- HDRP: Ported HDRP to the Native Render Pass Render Graph API.

- Package Manager: Removed the `overrideBuiltIns` property making all `builtin` packages with semver version unable to be overridden.

- Package Manager: Updated the Package Manager window to display completely non-compliant scoped registries.

- Profiler: Increased the default frame count in the Unity Profiler to 2,000.

- Universal RP: Isolated post-processing URP compatibility mode from Render Graph mode. Split PostProcessingPass into two independent classes for compatibility mode and render graph. Compatibility mode post-process code is now in the `Universal.CompatibilityMode` namespace.

- Universal RP: Updated global settings for URP empty scene template. It will now have rotating reflection probes enabled when creating a new URP project.

- URP: Updated FullScreenRenderPass to use AddCopyPass and AddBlitPass utilities when applicable \(e.g., fetchColorBuffer enabled and no texture requirements\).

- XR: Updated com.unity.xr.openxr package version to 1.15.0.

- XR: Updated the `com.unity.xr.openxr` package to version 1.15.0-pre.2.



#### Fixes

- 2D: Added methods to add/remove sorting layers for Light2D.
    (UUM-109322)

- 2D: Added warning when Sprite Outline is set to beyond the boundary of Sprite so artifacts in sprite assets can be found and fixed.
    ([UUM-107991](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/textures-from-other-sprites-in-the-assets-leak-into-sprite-renderer-sprites-when-sprite-atlas-v2-is-used))

- 2D: Fixed a performance regression when the Scriptable Render Pipeline batcher is disabled.
    (UUM-108333)

- 2D: Fixed an issue where Palette camera position and zoom were not stored and restored when the Tile Palette was reopened.
    ([UUM-108337](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tile-palette-window-zoom-level-resets-when-the-window-becomes-inactive))

- 2D: Fixed artifacts occurring on Metal when using Rendergraph pipeline.
    (UUM-109986)

- 2D: Fixed case where last segment is missed if any of the segment uses Null Sprite inbetween.
    ([UUM-105570](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/last-segment-of-a-sprite-shape-spline-is-affected-by-other-segments-sprite-variant-change-when-no-edge-sprite-is-selected))

- 2D: Fixed FullScreenRendererFeature exception when use with Rendergraph 2D.
    ([UUM-104830](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-failed-and-argumentexception-are-thrown-and-scene-slash-game-views-do-not-render-when-render-graph-is-enabled-and-requirements-are-set-in-full-screen-pass-renderer-feature))

- 2D: Fixed hdr encoding and postprocess resolve for rendergraph 2d.
    ([UUM-105392](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-is-rendered-white-when-viewing-the-editor-with-hdr-display-and-post-proccesing-is-enabled-on-the-main-camera-with-2d-urp))

- 2D: Fixed in 6000.3: implicit truncation of vector warning that is thrown after building in Universal2D Core template in Hidden/Light2D shader. This issue was introduced in LightingUtility.hlsl from 6000.1.x onward.

- 2D: Fixed issue where RigidBody2Ds could affect shadow caster size when using a Collider2D as a casting source.
    ([UUM-70734](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/size-of-shadowcaster2d-with-casting-source-set-to-a-collider-increases-when-rigidbody2d-is-attached-to-the-gameobject))

- 2D: Fixed issue with the TilemapRenderer when the TilemapRenderer has a Mask Interaction set to None and the user uses a shader which utilises the stencil buffer, and the stencil settings in the shader are not respected.
    ([UUM-109109](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tilemap-renderer-does-not-reflect-the-stencil-buffer-when-the-tilemap-renderer-mode-is-set-to-chunk))

- 2D: Fixed normals to account for Sprite FlipXY.
    (UUM-104352)

- 2D: Fixed TextureImporter meta file modification when reimporting a texture while the "Default Behaviour Mode" is set to 2D for new imported files.
    ([UUM-104536](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/namefileidtable-entry-changes-in-the-meta-file-when-reimporting-a-texture-while-the-default-behaviour-mode-is-set-to-2d))

- 2D: Fixed the Sprite Editor Toolbar module dropdown visual overlap when selecting an imported non-sprite texture in a 3D project.
    (UUM-104519)

- 2D: Fixed UI rendering when FXAA is enabled with camera stack.
    ([UUM-110338](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-is-not-rendering-and-an-error-is-thrown-when-fxaa-is-enabled-and-cameras-are-stacked-in-a-2d-urp-project))

- 2D: Fixed URP 2D lighting with meshes in Rendergraph.
    (UUM-109312)

- 2D: Fixed: Improved validation of RefreshTile Tilemap argument signature in Editor.
    ([UUM-109125](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tilemap-gettileasset-when-calling-tilemap-dot-gettile-in-new-refreshtile-method-for-tilebase-class))

- Accessibility: Fixed multiple accessibility node focus issues on Android.
    ([UUM-103808](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-assistivesupport-dot-nodefocuschanged-is-not-called-after-sendscreenchanged-or-sendlayoutchanged))

- Accessibility: Fixed: Set a minimum width on HierarchyViewer panes to fix resizing issues.
    ([UUM-109362](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/accessibility-hierarchy-viewer-sections-can-be-resized-to-zero-width))

- AI: Fixed: Agent was not progressing past a corner between polygons of different area types.
    ([UUM-72975](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmeshagent-gets-stuck-when-going-over-a-vertex-of-a-higher-cost-area))

- AI: Fixed: Agent was some times getting stuck in its movement along axis-aligned NavMesh edges.
    ([UUM-18593](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-objects-get-stuck-in-an-infinite-loop-when-passing-navmesh-surface-nodes))

- AI: Fixed: Agent was taking steps back while trying to correct the path it had computed through the NavMesh.
    ([UUM-79120](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nav-mesh-agent-gets-stuck-and-oscillate-when-traveling-along-edges-and-corners-of-nav-mesh-areas-with-different-costs))

- AI: NFixed: avMesh.CalculateTriangulation\(\) now returns triangles in the same order every time the navigation system uses the same set of NavMesh polygons.
    ([UUM-99801](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/navmesh-data-triangulation-result-is-always-different-when-using-navmesh-dot-calculatetriangulation))

- Android: Enforced the use of Streaming Assets extensions for the `noCompress` string in Android Gradle projects to avoid problems with too many entries in the list, which could cause Gradle builds to fail.
    ([UUM-105133](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-build-fails-when-streamingassets-contains-998-or-more-files))

- Android: Fixed a bug where calls lead to a state where starting new audio streams caused a main thread stall.
    ([UUM-103525](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-player-freezes-when-an-audio-source-is-playing-and-an-incoming-call-is-picked-up-and-then-hung-up-and-the-audio-source-is-started-again))

- Android: Fixed crash on GameActivity, when touching screen with 9 fingers or more. GameActivity only supports up to 8 fingers touching screen at the same time.
    ([UUM-108743](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-crash-on-unitymotioneventcallbacks-getpointeridimpl-when-giving-8-simultaneous-touch-inputs))

- Android: Fixed input field alignment on Api 35+.
    (UUM-102822)

- Android: Fixed Integer input field allowing multiple "-" symbols under certain conditions.
    ([UUM-103402](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multiple-symbols-are-allowed-to-appear-in-a-row-when-inputting-dot-into-a-non-decimal-numeric-field))

- Android: Fixed issue so the application will continue to update/render while built for 'GameActivity + run in split screen + permission dialog is shown' if RunWithFocus is set to true. Previously the application would pause for GameActivity, but would continue to run if built for Activity.
    (UUM-105630)

- Android: Fixed issue where RenderBufferLoadAction.DontCare is ignored in some situation when switching between use of RenderPass API and SetRenderTarget.
    ([UUM-104821](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-dont-care-loadaction-resets-to-load-when-running-on-mali-devices))

- Android: Fixed issue where Vulkan was preferred over GLES even though the drivers were detected as incompatible.
    ([UUM-109250](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/androidplayer-selects-vulkan-graphics-api-over-gles-even-on-devices-with-limited-support))

- Android: Fixed the problem with installing AAB to some Samsung devices which have Secure Folder.
    ([UUM-110694](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-exception-shell-does-not-have-permission-to-access-user-150-and-app-does-not-get-deployed-on-a-samsung-device-with-secure-folder-when-building-an-app-bundle-google-play))

- Android: Fixed: TestIMGUIKeyboardInteractions instability fix.
    (UUM-104026)

- Animation: Fixed an issue where a state machine state's name would be extending beyond the bounds of the node if the name was too long.
    ([UUM-107423](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-state-name-overflows-outside-the-visual-box-when-the-state-has-a-long-name))

- Animation: Fixed an issue where disabling an Animator would stop the Animator from evaluating.
    ([UUM-107650](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-does-not-continue-animation-indefinitely-when-toggling-animator-dot-enabled-through-code))

- Animation: Fixed an issue where sampling nested humanoid characters in the AnimationWindow could leave the hierarchy modified after going out of preview.
    ([UUM-104766](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rigged-gameobject-doesnt-return-to-its-idle-state-when-disabling-preview-and-the-gameobject-has-nested-rigged-gameobjects))

- Animation: Improved the contrast of text in the Animation window's hierarchy view.
    ([UUM-109379](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/poor-contrast-on-animation-clip-names-properties-when-using-the-dark-mode))

- Animation: Improved warnings associated with automatic calculations for 2D blend trees where some or none of the clips have any velocity.
    ([UUM-107878](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-thrown-when-computing-positions-in-a-2d-blendtree-are-not-helpful-to-the-user))

- Animation: Improved warnings associated with Homogenous Speed calculations for blend trees where some or none of the clips have any velocity.
    ([UUM-107877](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-thrown-when-adjusting-time-scale-to-homogenous-speed-in-a-blendtree-are-not-helpful-to-the-user))

- Asset Import: Fixed indeterminism of artifact ids which could occur when importers set dependencies to other assets.
    (UUM-107448)

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed asset Import workers that could get out of sync with their main editor process, rendering them unable to load assets.
    (UUM-100493)

- Asset Pipeline: Fixed issue where editor crashes and a window with "GetManagerFromContext: pointer to object of manager 'MonoManager' is NULL \(table index 5\)" error is thrown when launching a project with a corrupted library.
    ([UUM-100113](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-and-a-window-with-getmanagerfromcontext-pointer-to-object-of-manager-monomanager-is-null-table-index-5-error-is-thrown-when-launching-a-project-with-a-corrupted-library))

- Audio: Fixed a sudden dropout of high-priority sounds in the game under rare circumstances. This issue occurred when playing multiple new Audio Sources on the same frame as having stopped Audio Sources, while exceeding the number of real voices available in the system.
    (UUM-101807)

- Audio: Fixed an issue that would cause the main thread to stall when loading projects/scenes.
    ([UUM-100966](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/main-thread-stalling-when-loading-audio-source-asset-asynchronously-while-preloading-another-audio-source-asset))

- Audio: Fixed an issue where the "Audio Resource" field on an Audio Source in some cases wouldn't be properly updated in prefabs.
    ([UUM-104751](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/overrides-in-nested-prefabs-are-ignored-when-importing))

- Bug Reporter: Added preservation of  "+" characters in bug report data by ensuring correct string encoding.

- Bug Reporter: Fixed a bug on Linux where bug reporter fails to automatically attach the project after crash.
    (SUS-5761)

- Bug Reporter: Fixed a bug where progress bar blinks red when removing Attachments in Offline mode.
    ([UUM-105567](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/progress-bar-blinks-red-when-removing-attachments-in-offline-mode))

- Burst: Fixed that player builds using IL2CPP on Linux would have truncated stacktraces if Burst was in the callstack.
    ([BUR-2858](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-truncated-stack-traces-when-logging-from-managed-code-in-burst))

- Documentation: Removed Google Analytics disclaimer from Asset Store documentation.

- DX12: Fixed a performance regression on some devices on DX12.
    (UUM-105545)

- DX12: Fixed by displaying more details in the log message and displaying them only once to avoid spam.
    ([UUM-105174](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/attempting-to-draw-with-missing-bindings-warning-lacks-root-cause-indication-and-is-thrown-each-frame-when-structuredbuffer-is-accessed-on-directx12))

- DX12: Fixed by displaying more details in the log message and displaying them only once to avoid spam.
    (UUM-97790)

- DX12: Fixed by making sure we don't do anything with invalid input attachment indices.
    ([UUM-105412](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-d3d12commonshader-applygpuprogram-when-attaching-material-which-samples-unityfbinput0-to-full-screen-pass-renderer-feature-component))

- DX12: Fixed for crash when running with Native Jobs.
    (UUM-110198)

- DX12: Fixed: Added a filter to disable DX12 on devices that don't support feature level 12 and fallback to DX11. The filter also turns off graphics jobs, if the device has at most 4 CPUs or less than 4 GB of VRAM.

- DX12: Fixed: Stencil reference value is applied correctly when using graphics jobs.
    (UUM-92267)

- DX12: Fixed: \[Graphics\] Added support for generating mips when using Render Pass.
    ([UUM-105804](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-renders-yellow-color-when-using-rendertexture-dot-autogeneratemips-with-dx12))

- Editor: Added a message so the macOS Editor can properly ask the user for permission to access the microphone. This fixes a bug where if the Editor was launched via './run', instead of the Unity Hub, the microphone would not work.
    (UUM-109276)

- Editor: Added missing on-hover style for the Gradient preset and Scene Hierarchy kebab menu buttons.
    ([UUM-97502](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gradient-editor-tab-is-missing-on-hover-action-on-the-three-dot-menu))

- Editor: Added new callback `onDeleteArrayElementCallback ` to `ReorderableList`. This is called from the "Delete Array Element" context menu to let you control the removal, like `onRemoveCallback`.
    ([UUM-104534](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/onremovecallback-is-not-called-when-removing-an-element-from-the-reoderablelist-using-contextmenu))

- Editor: Added proper ellipsis support for ATG.
    (UUM-80062)

- Editor: Added Scene Filter allowing Hierarchy to filter only on object of a specific scene \(https://jira.unity3d.com/browse/RAT-2266\).
    (RAT-2266)

- Editor: Added Scene Filter allowing Hierarchy to filter only on object of a specific scene.

- Editor: Changed the TextInputBaseField Blur behaviour so that it now resets and scrolls the text back to the start when focus is lost.
    (UUM-73005)

- Editor: Enabled horizontal scroll in the Index Manager window.
    ([UUM-104905](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assets-objects-and-keywords-tabs-cannot-be-scrolled-horizontally-in-search-index-manager-window))

- Editor: Executing must correctly setup a Table if it contains one.
    ([UUM-107879](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tableview-not-setup-properly-after-executing-search-query))

- Editor: Fixed a bug causing issues with keywords in material variants to not change when reverting a property override.
    (UUM-109470)

- Editor: Fixed a bug where the 'RectTransform' component values were set to NaN when scaling UI elements using the Scene Rect Tool.
    ([UUM-102690](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rect-transform-values-are-set-to-nan-when-scaling-ui-element-with-centered-scaling))

- Editor: Fixed a bug whereby when evaluating an interrupted transition, the Animator writes the last evaluated values for all values instead of correctly defaulting to the state's current configuration.
    ([UUM-99493](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/all-animators-previous-animations-are-activated-while-transitioning-when-a-second-split-off-transition-overrides-the-first-split-off-transition))

- Editor: Fixed a crash when an internal source generated method is missing.
    ([UUM-108338](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-scripting-method-invoke-when-the-player-is-build-before-entering-the-play-mode-in-the-editor))

- Editor: Fixed a slight performance regression in build pipeline.
    (UUM-108628)

- Editor: Fixed Alignment of the layout of HelpBoxes in the Build Profile window.
    ([UUM-99453](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/meta-quest-platform-enable-platform-button-text-is-misaligned-in-build-profiles-window))

- Editor: Fixed an bug that was causing error spam to the console if an HDRP scene had a terrain without GPU instancing enabled and wireframe mode was turned on in the Scene View.
    ([UUM-104823](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unable-to-add-renderer-to-the-scene-after-culling-dot-error-when-adding-a-terrain-in-a-hdrp-project))

- Editor: Fixed an exception when accessing the toolbar of the animator window with a deleted animator.
    ([UUM-107430](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/animator-window-has-a-dropdown-button-that-throws-missingreferenceexception-error-on-a-new-project-when-the-previous-project-had-a-gameobject-with-an-animation))

- Editor: Fixed an issue that could cause the Editor Launch Screen to spontaneously crash on Linux.
    ([UUM-104828](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-on-editorlaunchscreen-platformeditorlaunchscreen-setprogress-when-opening-a-project-and-progress-bar-is-showing))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where camera rotation could cause ShadowCaster2Ds to be incorrectly clipped.
    ([UUM-90714](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shadowcaster2d-breaks-on-certain-rotation-positions-when-casting-source-is-set-to-polygoncollider2d))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where changes to fields that used delayed fields were not saved in prefab scenes.
    ([UUM-107890](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/values-in-rect-transform-component-are-only-partially-updated-when-changing-values-in-prefab-mode))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where Scene view gizmo icons were not loaded properly if "Load textures on demand" was enabled in project settings.
    ([UUM-104825](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/load-texture-data-on-demand-corrupts-unitys-packages-gizmos-in-scene-view))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the "Load texture data on demand" editor option was erroneously being applied to textures that have their data stored in a temporary memory location. \(These textures must read their texture data immediately\).
    (UUM-77958)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the CubemapArray inspector would not render correctly \(while spamming errors in the console\) under certain circumstances.
    (UUM-100574)

- Editor: Fixed an issue where the Frame value field didn't update when using the increment/decrement arrows in the Frame Debugger if the value was manually inputted.
    ([UUM-107394](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-frame-value-field-does-not-update-when-using-the-increment-slash-decrement-arrows-in-the-frame-debugger-if-the-value-has-been-manually-inputted))

- Editor: Fixed an issue where using EditorUtility.CopySerialized with textures could break the Texture Streaming's texture size tracking.
    (UUM-77958)

- Editor: Fixed an issue which could cause moving the Editor Launch Screen to appear jittery on Windows on scaled displays.
    (UUM-103498)

- Editor: Fixed artifacts when using HDRP with Screen Space Reflections in XR.
    ([UUM-84213](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/quest-artifacts-when-using-hdrp-with-screen-space-reflections-in-xr))

- Editor: Fixed Awaitables that use main thread affinity logic for continuations so they are not hanging when paused in play mode.
    (UUM-110950)

- Editor: Fixed bitmap system font to match OS font smoothing setting.
    ([UUM-72936](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-does-not-align-with-os-preferences-when-font-smoothing-is-disabled-on-windows-and-the-bitmap-setting-is-chosen-in-the-editor))

- Editor: Fixed ColorPicker incorrectly assigning the alpha to the blue channel.
    ([UUM-110106](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/incorrect-color-is-selected-when-selecting-color-from-swatches-or-defaults-in-the-color-picker))

- Editor: Fixed crash that could occur when repeatedly performing actions that require a progress dialog such as saving and entering play mode at the same time.
    ([UUM-104261](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-nsapplication-endmodalsession-when-saving-while-play-mode-is-loading))

- Editor: Fixed distorted TagManagerInspector pop up window if tag confirmed using Enter.
    ([UUM-110586](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-tag-popup-window-is-deformed-and-stretched-out-when-creating-a-tag-with-the-same-name-as-an-already-existing-tag))

- Editor: Fixed error message and refresh missing when going into playmode if no domain reload.
    ([UUM-108340](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/project-settings-panels-disappear-and-do-not-repaint-when-entering-play-mode-without-reloading-domain))

- Editor: Fixed fied object reflection missing on a Planar Reflection Probe when rotating the camera to certain angles with the Realtime Raytracing quality setting enabled.
    ([UUM-86524](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/object-reflection-missing-on-a-planar-reflection-probe-when-rotating-the-camera-to-certain-angles-with-the-realtime-raytracing-quality-setting-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed floating license cleanup and concurrent license update in LicensingClient 1.17.1.

- Editor: Fixed global scene list not updating while custom build profile is active.
    (UUM-104738)

- Editor: Fixed hang where the Editor could hang on Linux when running under a misconfigured display session.
    (UUM-101798)

- Editor: Fixed HierarchyV2 to now support FindInScene functionality.
    (RAT-2289)

- Editor: Fixed IMGUI EditorGUIUtility.labelWidth value being changed by the Scene View UI. This could impact other windows drawn afterwards.
    ([UUM-110450](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorguilayout-dot-toggle-clickable-area-is-shifted-when-using-built-in-render-pipeline))

- Editor: Fixed IMGUI Errors on LinuxEditor arising when RepaintImmediately\(\) called on window currently being painted.
    ([UUM-104622](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-using-ctrl-plus-alt-plus-a-shortcut-for-add-component-throws-gui-rendering-errors))

- Editor: Fixed issue on macOS where a dropdown can appear very far away from the button that was clicked.
    ([UUM-109011](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-dropdown-options-appear-on-top-of-the-window-when-part-of-the-window-is-covered))

- Editor: Fixed issue where components were visible in the Add Component menu when \[AddComponentMenu\(""\)\] was used.
    ([UUM-99267](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/component-is-not-hidden-from-add-component-menu-when-using-addcomponentmenu))

- Editor: Fixed issue where excluded Quality Settings were being included in builds on some platforms.
    (UUM-108631)

- Editor: Fixed issue where the CrashReporter was improperly getting EngineDiagnostics value during runtime.

- Editor: Fixed issue where the Unity Editor would still open after a user terminated the launch screen during project load.
    ([UUM-107863](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-editor-opens-when-the-window-is-closed-right-after-launch))

- Editor: Fixed issue with a Build Profile tooltip not showing correct path to Build Profile asset if it was moved.

- Editor: Fixed issue with static time access to BuildTargetDiscovery causes importer to fail.
    (UUM-105132)

- Editor: Fixed issue with TMP bloom effects not working anymore.
    ([UUM-90091](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/non-hdr-color-picker-opens-when-selecting-material-color-with-hdr-enabled))

- Editor: Fixed LinuxEditor failing to trigger some shortcuts when InputManager is disabled.
    ([UUM-104604](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-shortcuts-that-use-shift-modifier-and-numbers-row-are-not-triggered))

- Editor: Fixed method decorated with HideInCallstack attribute being opened by IDE instead of the caller method.
    ([UUM-99776](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hidden-method-is-opened-in-ide-when-double-clicking-the-log-message-in-the-console-that-has-the-hideincallstackattribute))

- Editor: Fixed minor UI overlapping text in the HDRP Wizard.
    ([UUM-105020](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-wizard-window-ui-components-overlap-when-hdrp-wizard-window-is-docked-and-resized-horizontally))

- Editor: Fixed missing icons for brush attributes and target density for built-in Terrain Tools.
    ([WBTRB-147](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-tools-icons-are-low-quality))

- Editor: Fixed NullPointerException when editing Supported URL Schemes or Preloaded Assets size setting.
    (UUM-103946)

- Editor: Fixed OverlayMenu behaviour when deleting or reverting presets.
    ([UUM-103066](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/when-reverting-all-presets-or-deleting-the-currently-chosen-preset-the-overlay-preset-is-not-switched-to-the-default-preset))

- Editor: Fixed OverlayMenu width when preset name is very long.
    ([UUM-103059](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-overlay-menu-preset-option-text-is-not-truncated-and-the-overlay-menu-is-unusable-at-certain-sizes-when-preset-name-is-a-long-string))

- Editor: Fixed packages selected will be kept even when switched away to other platforms on platform discovery window when creating build profiles.
    (UUM-104814)

- Editor: Fixed preview drag handler not being correctly hidden when preview is shown as floating window.
    ([UUM-105769](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-invisible-element-without-edges-is-left-over-when-a-preview-is-converted-to-a-floating-window-in-the-inspector))

- Editor: Fixed proper ordering of buttons in the footer of the build profile window.
    ([UUM-105431](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/buttons-cloud-build-and-switch-profile-changed-their-positions))

- Editor: Fixed random crash in BatchRendererGroup rendering.
    (UUM-105252)

- Editor: Fixed ray tracing shaders from .shader files ignoring `Strict shader variant matching` option from Player Settings.
    (UUM-107689)

- Editor: Fixed regression that caused the wrong info / help icons to show in the editor UI for the SRPs.
    ([UUM-104996](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/wrong-documentation-icon-in-multiple-graphics-tools))

- Editor: Fixed renaming profiles adding a suffix '1' with capitalization only edits.
    (UUM-104025)

- Editor: Fixed rendering debugger warning when disabling a setting in the HDRP asset.
    (UUM-110804)

- Editor: Fixed Screen Space Lens Flare override inspector error when there no render \(game or scene view\).
    (UUM-110866)

- Editor: Fixed SerializedProperty errors that could occur when editing and canceling the edit for an int2 followed by float2.
    ([UUM-110524](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/serializedproperty-errors-are-thrown-when-pressing-the-esc-key-to-cancel-the-modification-of-int-or-float-values))

- Editor: Fixed t: that was inserting a pill \(https://jira.unity3d.com/browse/RAT-2271\).
    (RAT-2271)

- Editor: Fixed the issue with search results are stacked on top of each other.
    ([UUM-107495](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-results-are-stacked-on-top-of-each-other))

- Editor: Fixed the main toolbar Unity logo shrinking when the width was reduced.
    ([UUM-110070](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-logo-becomes-deformed-when-the-editor-is-resized-horizontally))

- Editor: Fixed tooltip position when mouse is over Scripting Defines in Build Profiles window.
    (UUM-104272)

- Editor: Fixed Unity Editor icons used within the Inspector on high-dpi \(e.g. Retina-\) screens.
    (UUM-104627)

- Editor: Fixed UnityEvent drawer changing the object argument when editing multiple objects.
    ([UUM-104854](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/references-placed-in-a-unityevent-change-to-the-same-reference-when-multi-selecting-their-gameobjects))

- Editor: Fixed VFX not repainted when changing some asset properties.
    ([UUM-99917](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-are-not-reinit-immediatly-when-changing-properties-in-asset-inspector))

- Editor: Fixed warning about inability to create a file containing "~UnityDirMonSyncFile~" in the filename located in a modules file.
    ([UUM-109594](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-appear-in-the-console-window-when-opening-a-new-project))

- Editor: Fixed warnings in console when creating a new scene from template with assets with package manager samples.
    (UUM-104701)

- Editor: Fixed when a BuildProfile is renamed, update the BuildProfileEditor to refresh the name displayed.
    (UUM-104263)

- Editor: Fixed `ExposedReference` property drawer not allowing scene references.
    ([UUM-108754](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/drag-and-drop-and-object-picker-assignment-fail-when-exposedreference-variables-are-used-in-a-timeline-clip))

- Editor: Fixed `HeaderAttribute` property drawer issue when used with collections.
    ([UUM-104395](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/headerattribute-does-not-work-when-used-with-arrays-or-lists))

- Editor: Fixed `PlayerSettings` icon APIs so that `GetIcons`, `GetIconsForTargetGroup`, `GetIconSizes`, and `GetIconSizesForTargetGroup` return the correct icon arrays for the provided `NamedBuildTarget` or `BuildTargetGroup` argument.
    ([UUM-97474](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-settings-icons-are-not-retrieved-when-using-playersettings-dot-geticons-method))

- Editor: Fixed: "Asset Labels" section should not appear when a non-asset is being selected.
    ([UUM-110356](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/asset-labels-section-appears-in-inspector-when-selecting-a-scene-gameobject))

- Editor: Fixed: Black boxes no longer show when a modal window is open.
    ([UUM-101514](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/black-artifact-becomes-visible-in-the-build-profiles-window-when-the-build-automation-window-is-opened))

- Editor: Fixed: Ensure preference to accept to modify the Diagnostics page stays valid for the life of the SettingsWindow.
    ([UUM-104094](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/diagnostic-warning-resets-when-navigating-away-and-returning-to-diagnostics-settings))

- Editor: Fixed: Ensure we do not rebuild the SearchBaseCollection view if the fixedItemHeight hasn't changed.
    ([UUM-107392](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/prefab-preview-image-keeps-changing-in-the-global-search-list-when-the-zoom-value-changes))

- Editor: Fixed: Exception thrown when renaming component with symbols in UIBuilder.
    ([UUM-107901](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-errors-are-thrown-everytime-a-keyboard-key-is-pressed-when-renaming-a-component-in-ui-builder-with-a-symbol-and-changing-the-name-after-label-attribute-warning))

- Editor: Fixed: https://jira.unity3d.com/browse/UUM-108146<br>
    NullReferenceException thrown when Terrain component is removed and re-added with the existing Terrain data.
    (UUM-108146)

- Editor: Fixed: If user opens a color picker popup window from the inspector during domain reload, they no longer get errors on console when the domain reload completes.
    ([UUM-107397](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-error-nullreferenceexception-object-reference-not-set-to-an-instance-of-an-object-is-present-when-opening-the-color-window-before-script-recompilation))

- Editor: Fixed: Loading RenderDoc in Windows Editor does not crash when GPU skinning\(Batched\) is enabled.
    ([UUM-105820](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-d3dkmtopenresource-when-capturing-with-renderdoc-while-gpu-skinning-is-set-to-gpu-batched))

- Editor: Fixed: Popup regression caused by a multi-platform fix only affecting OSX.
    ([UUM-107557](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/linux-crash-on-gtk-widget-get-window-when-attempting-to-create-a-new-tilemap))

- Editor: Fixed: Reverted the previous behavior of the prompt window in the shortcut manager.
    ([UUM-105308](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/data-in-the-create-new-profile-modal-appears-later-than-the-modal-itself))

- Editor: Fixed: Rollback avoid of inclusion of DebugUI resources on retail builds.
    (UUM-109108)

- Editor: Fixed: Simplify how indexing can be configured by enforcing a single index policy.

- Editor: Fixed: SpeedTree meshes and objects count differs when comparing the numbers in the Player with the Editor.
    ([UUM-105402](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/speedtree-meshes-and-objects-count-differs-when-comparing-the-numbers-in-the-player-with-the-editor))

- Editor: Fixed: Strip unneeded xr render passes if they are not needed.
    (UUM-108351)

- Editor: Fixed: The additional actions button no longer erroneously shows in the footer of the build profile window when multiple build profiles are selected.
    ([UUM-104535](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/publish-to-play-button-becomes-visible-after-the-build-profiles-duplication))

- Editor: Fixed: The additional actions button no longer erroneously shows in the footer of the build profile window when switching from build profiles to classic platforms.
    ([UUM-105397](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/upload-button-is-not-hidden-in-the-build-profiles-window-when-user-switches-from-build-profile-to-a-platform))

- Editor: Fixed: The UI Builder stylesheet will no longer be applied to elements in the library preview popup window.
    (UUM-86841)

- Editor: Improved Docs on IHV texture formats .dds, .pvr, .astc and .ktx.
    ([UUM-87464](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/improve-docs-on-ihv-slash-dds-import))

- Editor: Improved preview window toolbar style so large labels do not take too much space.
    ([UUM-110119](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preview-window-buttons-are-pushed-out-by-header-text))

- Editor: Removed an assert to replace it with a debug assert due to an issue with hierarchical animation component.
    ([UUM-109748](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertion-failed-on-expression-error-occurs-when-multiple-animation-components-are-instantiated-after-changing-the-culling-type))

- Editor: Removed redundant NUnit include from SRP Core code.
    (UUM-110025)

- Editor: Removed the "Check for Updates" window.
    ([UUM-102388](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/check-for-updates-fails-to-connect-to-update-server))

- Editor: Removed the "Check for Updates" window.
    ([UUM-102388](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/check-for-updates-fails-to-connect-to-update-server))

- Editor: Removed the "Check for Updates" window.
    (UUM-97698)

- Editor: Removed the edit mode buttons from the reflection probe inspectors and added them as overlays.

- Editor: Removed the need to use the uxml traits property bag when resolving the name of an element during serialised data attribute override generation.
    (UUM-105344)

- Editor: Removed unused X11 functions.

- Editor: Replaced StateCache's BinaryFormatter implementation \(which is obsolete in NET 8\) with custom binary serialization handling.
    (RAT-2303)

- Editor: Unity_RendererBounds_Min/max available in URP with BRG, EG or GRD.
    ([UUM-103990](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/different-custom-shader-behavior-when-gpu-resident-drawer-is-enabled))

- Engine Diagnostics: Fixed crash occurring when sending diagnostics data in the background.
    (UUM-110101)

- GI: Enabled CPU lightmapper on Apple Silicon Editor and Windows on ARM Editor by running CPU lightmapper using x64 emulation in a separate process.
    (UUM-102347)

- GI: Fixed a bug where "per-vertex" SH evaluation mode didn't work with Deferred rendering URP.
    ([UUM-104066](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/sh-evaluation-mode-has-no-performance-difference-when-set-to-per-vertex-compared-to-per-pixel))

- GI: Fixed a bug where projects using Adaptive Probe Volumes would have high memory usage in Editor, especially when the project contains many scenes that use Adaptive Probe Volumes.
    ([UUM-104833](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/all-baked-data-for-all-scenes-using-apv-is-always-loaded-in-editor))

- GI: Fixed issue so now APV work with Subscenes in URP.
    (UUM-104165)

- GI: Fixed: Added error handling and checks to ensure that the `JobProcess` is not attempted to be used on MacOS Arm64 unless Rosetta 2 is available.

- GI: Fixed: Group lighting related settings in the UniversalRenderPipelineAsset.

- GI: Fixed: Out of bounds mesh LOD assert during light baking that happened when a mesh had additional vertex streams, a non-zero GI mesh LOD index and additional vertex stream mesh without the same number of mesh LODs as the main mesh.
    (UUM-105370)

- GI: Fixed: The size of Disc light was incorrectly calculated in HDRP path-tracing.
    (UUM-108082)

- GI: Rewrote parts of APV probe placement in order to 1\) fix MacOS probe placement bug, and 2\) make Windows and MacOS use the same code path.
    (UUM-73280)

- GI: Valid mesh fails extraction for LightBaking.
    ([UUM-101294](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/pathtracer-addgeometry-job-error-is-thrown-when-baking-lighting))

- Graphics: Added job lifetime warnings when GraphicsStateCollection warmup spans many frames.
    ([UUM-102639](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/warnings-when-warming-up-shaders-with-graphicsstatecollection))

- Graphics: Fixed a potential deadlock that could freeze players when loading or unloading AssetBundles with threaded texture uploads enabled.
    ([UUM-102896](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/arm-the-player-freezes-when-awaiting-g-uploadedtexturecondvar-in-the-main-thread))

- Graphics: Fixed a validation warning on DirectX by changing the placeholder input layout format.
    ([UUM-105001](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-vertex-stream-with-a-stride-of-1-is-bound-to-the-gpu-in-player-when-mesh-is-compressed))

- Graphics: Fixed additional separator in menu when the VolumeComponent is in the default VolumeProfile.
    ([UUM-108517](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/double-separation-lines-are-present-in-override-controls-in-a-defaultvolumeprofile-asset))

- Graphics: Fixed additional separator in menu when there is no advanced properties in the VolumeComponent.
    ([UUM-108543](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/double-separation-lines-are-present-in-override-controls-in-a-new-volume-profile-asset))

- Graphics: Fixed an issue where performing certain actions such as baking reflection probes could cause assertions to be hit.
    (UUM-103689)

- Graphics: Fixed an issue with "Rendering Layers" in Decal Projector contains the 24th layer or above on URP, decal projection does not work properly.
    ([UUM-105697](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/decals-are-not-projected-when-rendering-layers-are-set-to-24th-layer-or-above-in-decal-projector))

- Graphics: Fixed BatchRendererGroup's OnPerformCulling to function now correctly checks for job safety between the provided buffers and the JobHandle returned by the user.
    ([UUM-98559](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-error-slash-warning-in-console-when-batchrenderergroup-reads-draw-commands-before-culling-jobs-are-complete))

- Graphics: Fixed corner case with native render pass emulation workflow where render target was not set correctly before clearing depth buffer.

- Graphics: Fixed crashes when reading Texture2D \(sub\)assets with a data payload larger than expected.
    ([UUM-101784](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-persistentmanager-getserializedfileifobjectavailable-when-opening-a-specific-project))

- Graphics: Fixed duplicated color resolve when mixing native render pass and set render target workflows.
    (UUM-103751)

- Graphics: Fixed issues when OpenXR resize it's swapchain a lot.
    (UUM-109456)

- Graphics: Fixed memory corruption caused by inconsistent reflection probe metadata.

- Graphics: Fixed shadow culling not working correctly for intermediate renderers like Graphics.RenderMesh or Terrain.
    ([UUM-96217](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-detail-mesh-triangles-value-increases-when-occlusion-culling-is-used-and-cast-shadows-is-enabled-on-the-mesh))

- Graphics: Fixed undisposed array in GPUResidentDrawer.ProcessRendererMaterialAndMeshChanges.
    (UUM-108147)

- Graphics: Fixed: Compressed texture atlases no longer produce invalid mipmaps for smaller atlas items by limiting the number of miplevels. This is based on the miplevel where the smallest atlas item is exactly one compression block large.
    ([UUM-97688](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture2d-dot-packtextures-causes-mips-7-9-to-turn-pink-when-packed-textures-are-of-astc-4x4-compression))

- Graphics: Fixed: The texture FilterMode would default to Point filtering on some iOS and OSX devices when mipmap streaming was enabled, this has been fixed.
    ([UUM-107360](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/texture-looks-point-sampled-when-mipmap-streaming-is-enabled))

- Graphics: Improved the error message when trying to use Volume framework before initialization.
    ([UUM-104542](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-trying-to-access-volumestack-from-the-hdcamera-class))

- Graphics: Removed an assert exception in UnityEngine.Rendering.CreateDrawBatchesJob.ProcessRenderer when changing a material property of a material used in MeshRenderers with multiple submeshes, after re-importing URP or HDRP.
    ([UUM-103975](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assertionexception-thrown-and-mesh-turns-invisible-when-changing-material-offset-manually-via-the-inspector-or-through-settextureoffset-on-a-mesh-with-more-than-one-material))

- HDRP: Fixed Decal Projector Layer Mask Override UI.
    ([UUM-104831](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-decal-projector-rendering-layer-mask-overwrite-hidden-when-the-value-is-changed))

- HDRP: Fixed default fog volume shader warning.
    ([UUM-105000](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-slash-defaultfogvolume-implicit-truncation-of-vector-type-warning-is-thrown-when-building-hdrp-project))

- HDRP: Fixed SSR debug modes causing an exception when they are enabled.

- IL2CPP: Fixed issue where some references type values only stored in a struct field would not be reported in the memory profiler.
    ([UUM-99608](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-profiler-does-not-report-struct-types-when-they-are-used-in-static-fields-in-il2cpp-scripting-backend))

- IL2CPP: Fixed: Prevent possible shutdown deadlock when using waits with zero time out.
    ([UUM-104910](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-with-il2cpp-scripting-backend-crashes-when-calling-application-dot-quit-while-a-thread-is-running))

- IMGUI: Fixed the fallback font weight for Roboto Mono in IMGUI.
    ([UUM-110337](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/monospaced-fonts-do-not-maintain-a-fixed-width-when-using-the-bold-variants))

- Input System: Fixed: Resolved issue with the Siri Remote \(Gen2\) where navigating with the Directional Pad caused `buttonSouth` to become true. This was due to OS propogating A button events after a D-Pad click \(rather than a swipe\).
    (UUM-110170)

- Input System: The back and forward buttons on Windows were switched when their state was read in the Input System. The issue is now fixed.
    ([UUM-105141](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/mouse-forward-is-detected-when-mouse-backward-is-pressed-or-held))

- Installer: Fixed a potential exploit in the Windows Editor Installer.

- Installer: Removed Visual C++ 2013 Redistributables from Windows Editor Installer.
    (UUM-104797)

- iOS: Fixed warning in the Xcode console when keyboard is open and changing orientation on iPad.
    (UUM-95530)

- Kernel: Fixed rare deadlock on Windows in `Resources.UnloadUnusedAssets`.
    (UUM-100691)

- Kernel: Fixed: JobHandle.Complete\(\) goes to sleep sooner when there is no work to steal. This allows the waiting thread to give up the CPU core sooner to allow another thread to perform work or to preserve battery life.
    (UUM-83082)

- Kernel: Upgraded TinyXml2 from version 9.0.0 to 11.0.0.
    (UUM-108036)

- Linux: Fixed Linux runtime not respecting popupwindow argument.
    ([UUM-105221](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/desktop-linux-runtime-does-not-respect-popupwindow-command-line-argument))

- Mono: Fixed crash on some default interface method calls.
    ([UUM-99049](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-raiseexception-when-using-default-interface-methods))

- Mono: Fixed Crash when invoking a default interface method that is generic with value type generic argument.
    ([UUM-109706](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-mono-class-inflate-generic-method-full-checked-when-accessing-static-properties-or-methods-of-a-generic-interface-in-a-generic-class))

- Mono: Fixed GC Handle leak that would happen every time a new function pointer was returned for a managed delegate.
    ([UUM-105139](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unmanagedreadorwrite-objects-are-not-disposed-off-when-gzipstream-is-used-in-the-using-statement))

- Mono: Fixed issue where mono's debugger agent thread would not restart when a connection issue was encountered.
    (UUM-107431)

- N/A \(internal\): Fixed: Reverted fields to properties back to fix compatibility for precompiled assemblies.
    (UUM-107276)

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where installing a git package using Git LFS would not work with Git LFS 3.6.0 and higher.
    (UUM-91342)

- Package Manager: Fixed an issue where Package Manager action buttons overlapped when the window width was small.
    (UUM-108911)

- Package Manager: Fixed so now GetPackagesPath are thread/serialization safe.
    (UUM-104998)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where Assets cannot be imported when the Asset package contains project settings and all project settings are unchanged.
    ([UUM-100078](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/assets-do-not-get-imported-from-an-asset-package-when-library-assets-in-the-asset-package-are-unchanged))

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where extension buttons are not consistently shown.
    ([UUM-84399](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inconsistent-logic-on-when-open-vfx-graph-samples-button-appears-on-visual-effect-graph-in-package-manager))

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where Project Settings cannot be imported when the Asset package contains project settings and all Assets are unchanged.
    (UUM-90627)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where the details panel is too width when text starts cropping.
    ([UUM-107297](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/package-description-text-is-cut-off-when-resizing-unity-package-manager-window))

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where the `Reset` button and the `Customized` icon have different logics and show up at different times.
    (UUM-82875)

- Package Manager: Fixed the issue where there are invalid Unity major versions in the inspector dropdown.
    (UUM-85694)

- Particles: Fixed crash in trail geometry job.
    ([UUM-103773](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-writeparticlelinevertex-when-particle-systems-are-rendered-in-a-specific-project))

- Particles: Fixed particle system tooltips where shown in the inspector, even though the UI controls were not visible.
    ([UUM-100925](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/particle-system-property-description-labels-show-through-the-particle-systems-curve-editor-when-hovering-the-mouse-over-the-curve-editor))

- Physics: Fixed an issue where setting geometry data to GeometryHolder would write out of bounds, due the the memory alignment being incorrect on 32bit builds.

- Physics 2D: Fixed memory leak when reporting 2D physics collision callbacks.
    ([UUM-108093](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-leak-when-using-rigidbody2d-physics-in-webgl))

- Physics 2D: Fixed tooltip rendering for the Rigidbody2D Simulation Mode layer selection in the Physics2DSettings.
    (UUM-105521)

- Physics 2D: Fixed: Ensured that changing the Transform Z position only doesn't affect Rigidbody2D interpolation.
    ([UUM-108922](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/changing-transform-dot-position-dot-z-per-frame-should-not-affect-rigidbody2d-interpolation))

- Playables: Fixed an issue where PlayableOutput.SetSourcePlayable would take a long time on PlayableGraphs with many outputs.
    (UUM-108822)

- Player: Fixed an issue where the startup logs would be missing from the normal log file \(or standard output\) when the "Capture Startup Logs" player setting was enabled.
    ([UUM-102670](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/startup-logs-are-missing-in-player-logs-when-capture-startup-logs-is-enabled))

- Player: Fixed issues when setting the same value multiple times to developerConsoleEnabled.

- Player: Fixed: The DeveloperConsole now correctly opens after being re-enabled, fixing an issue where it would remain stuck in a closed state.
    ([UUM-109718](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/debug-console-does-not-reappear-when-disabling-and-re-enabling-debug-dot-developerconsoleenabled))

- Profiler: Fixed FrameTiming.cpuMainThreadFrameTime and Profiler to not include RenderThread wait times when Split Graphics Jobs are enabled.
    (UUM-104394)

- Profiler: Fixed Player hang during Autoconnect on long Player initialization.
    ([UUM-101218](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/player-unresponsive-when-building-a-specific-project-with-autoconnect-profiler-enabled))

- PS4: Added validation check for ContentId and improved error message for invalid or missing contentId setting.
    (UUM-107975)

- PS5: Added validation check for ContentId and improved error message for invalid or missing contentId setting.
    (UUM-107975)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed a bug where Camera overlays dropdown wouldn't display the camera name.
    ([UUM-104633](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-view-cameras-overlay-shows-no-camera-found-when-main-camera-exists-in-the-scene))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed a bug where the folding out overlays and change them to toolbar mode would only show their grabber.

- Scene/Game View: Fixed a bug where the overlays would be offset from the top of the SceneView when dragged.
    (UUM-109220)

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where Focus Pan command would often set an impractical zoom pivot if Canvas object was picked.
    ([UUM-108790](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-view-doesnt-select-the-canvas-when-its-clicked-with-the-view-tool))

- Scene/Game View: Fixed an issue where the Camera first person mode in the Cameras overlay wasn't clickable after restarting the Editor with the Game view focused.
    ([UUM-108801](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-camera-first-person-mode-in-cameras-overlay-is-greyed-out-and-not-clickable-when-the-editor-is-restarted-with-the-game-view-focused))

- Scripting: Added warning to tag manager if trying to add the same tag more than once.
    ([UUM-99990](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/no-error-notification-is-displayed-when-creating-a-tag-with-an-already-existing-name))

- Scripting: Fixed so that systems performing argument validation \(Infinity, NaN etc\) also do so in a Player Development Build.
    (UUM-105153)

- Scripting: Fixed UnityEvent not executing runtime callbacks in some circumstances.
    ([UUM-73759](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unity-events-added-to-a-scriptableobject-are-not-invoked-if-they-are-added-in-edit-mode-and-their-call-state-is-set-to-runtime-only))

- Scripting: Fixed: Optimized the Main Thread times of InstantiateAsync and added a new OriginalImmutable flag to reduce the times even more.
    ([UUM-102307](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/long-scheduler-times-on-main-thread-when-using-instantiateasync-with-a-singular-massive-prefab))

- Scripting: Fixed: Prevent recursion when unloading Scriptable Object.
    ([UUM-77941](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-tlsf-free-when-calling-unloadresources-with-the-ondisable-function))

- Search: Fixed: QueryMarkers correctly supports strings with quotes.
    ([UUM-108372](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/searchexpression-strips-quotes))

- Search: Fixed: Support interface filtering for component and asset types.
    ([UUM-109613](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/search-filtering-by-interface-type-does-not-work))

- Serialization: Added additional checks to better catch merging errors in UnityYAML.
    ([UUM-98013](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editorutility-dot-isvalidunityyaml-failing-to-properly-validate-yaml-parsed-into-it))

- Serialization: Fixed: The `[SerializeField]` attribute is now marked with `[AttributeUsage(AttributeTargets.Field)]`, preventing people from applying it to things that aren't fields, e.g. because they got mixed up between `[SerializeField]` and `[Serializable]`. Any code that was applying it to things other than fields will now produce compiler errors; in these situations the attribute was doing nothing, so you can delete it without changing the behaviour of your code. \(Thanks, spiney199\!\).
    (UUM-105742)

- Shadergraph: Fixed an issue where nodes without valid previews would expand on creation and collapse on selection.
    ([UUM-104202](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/empty-custom-function-node-is-created-expanded-and-then-shrinks-when-moved))

- Shadergraph: Fixed: Added wrapping to the custom function node's label and fixed an issue where it would not update immediately.
    ([UUM-103861](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/custom-function-nodes-label-and-name-field-is-not-limited-to-the-graph-inspectors-bounds))

- Shadergraph: Fixed: Float node documentation link now resolves correctly.
    ([UUM-103781](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-404-page-is-opened-when-selecting-open-documentation-on-the-float-node-in-shader-graph))

- Shadergraph: Fixed: Shader Graph Asset help button now redirects to the correct URL.
    ([UUM-103777](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-importers-documentation-reference-button-leads-to-a-404-page))

- Shadergraph: Fixed: Speed Tree subgraphs documentation link now resolves correctly.
    ([UUM-103972](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-404-page-is-opened-when-selecting-open-documentation-for-any-speedtree-sub-graph-asset))

- Shadergraph: Fixed: Sub Graph Asset help button now redirects to the correct URL.
    ([UUM-105173](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/shader-graph-import-settings-documentation-leads-to-sorry-dot-dot-dot-that-page-seems-to-be-missing-page-when-opened-through-the-documentation-button-in-the-inspector-window))

- Shadergraph: Fixed: Sub Graph node documentation link now redirects to the correct URL.
    ([UUM-103971](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-404-page-is-opened-when-selecting-open-documentation-for-any-custom-sub-graph-in-shader-graph))

- Shaders: Fixed a crash that could occur when opening projects with compute shaders.

- SRP Core: Added OpenGLES3 to the list of XR systems that use texture arrays.
    ([UUM-104000](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendergraph-xr-imported-textures-are-not-using-the-correct-dimension-and-slices))

- SRP Core: Fixed a misaligned Histogram Percentages in a exposure volume component for HDRP.
    (UUM-91672)

- SRP Core: Fixed MaterialUpgrader not saving the upgraded materials to disk, causing preview icons to not update.
    ([UUM-105393](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/model-and-prefab-preview-icons-are-not-updated-after-upgrading-associated-materials-to-urp))

- SRP Core: Fixed Memoryless RenderGraph Textures so now can be casted to RTHandles in SetRenderFunction\(\).
    (UUM-96238)

- SRP Core: Fixed NullReferenceException due to missing DebugState annotation when trying to use DebugUI.ObjectField.
    ([UUM-105490](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-is-thrown-when-assigning-an-object-to-a-custom-debugui-dot-objectfield-in-rendering-debugger))

- SRP Core: Fixed RenderGraph.Cleanup\(\) correctly clears RenderGraph resource pools.

- SRP Core: Fixed Rendering Debugger panel splitter not being clamped properly.
    ([UUM-105576](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/rendering-debugger-window-sections-do-not-have-a-minimum-width-set-when-resizing-with-the-slider-in-the-middle-of-the-window))

- SRP Core: Fixed Volume component documentation link.
    ([UUM-102257](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/volume-component-documentation-link-is-missing))

- SRP Core: Fixed: Prevent selection of Default Volume profile list elements.
    ([UUM-103064](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/graphics-settings-expandable-fields-have-weird-selection-highlight-when-clicking-on-the-empty-spot-inside-the-settings))

- SRP Core: Removed extra manual clear operation for textures imported to Render Graph and used first as render pass attachments.
    (UUM-109284)

- Terrain: Corrected behavior of height painting into multiple terrain tiles whose vertical ranges do not overlap. Height values are now correctly clamped instead of wrapping.
    ([UUM-105782](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-edge-of-the-terrain-is-breaking-when-painting-along-the-edges-where-the-two-terrains-connect))

- Terrain: Fixed low-resolution icons for high PPI and retina displays.
    ([WBTRB-147](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/terrain-tools-icons-are-low-quality))

- Terrain: Fixed: Overlays icon state for selected built-in Terrain tools.

- Text: Fixed IME issue.
    ([UUM-100552](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-textmeshpro-input-field-gets-cleared-when-characters-are-entered-using-a-japanese-keyboard-layout-and-a-suggestion-is-selected-from-the-composition-string-window))

- Text: Fixed issue to now ensure the Advanced Text Generator supports Text Auto Size.
    (UUM-105208)

- Text: Fixed: Expose PostProcessTextVertices to enable text animation without the need for reflection.
    (UUM-108065)

- TextCore: Ensured that disabled `TextField` components do not collapse when empty.
    ([UUM-103184](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/text-field-becomes-narrow-when-selecting-children-of-toggle-element-in-ui-builder))

- TextCore: Fixed richTextTag not taking into account the display scaling.
    (UUM-104160)

- UI Elements: Fixed event `BaseVerticalCollectionView.selectedIndicesChanged` to no longer reverse the order of selected indices during range selection that is moving to the _next_ item \(shift + key down on most systems\).
    (RAT-2352)

- UI Elements: Fixed the items not expanding on creation when autoExpand is set to true.
    ([UUM-107968](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/multicolumntreeview-does-not-auto-expand-foldouts-when-autoexpand-is-set-to-true))

- UI Toolkit: Added clarity around selection in the samples window.
    ([UUM-87336](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/unexpected-behaviour-when-selecting-items-in-ui-toolkits-treeview-sample))

- UI Toolkit: Added missing UxmlAttribute converters for byte, sbyte, short and ushort.

- UI Toolkit: Added UsageHints.LargePixelCoverage, which can be used on a large VisualElement \(e.g. panel background\) to force the use of a specialized shader that is more GPU friendly.
    ([UUM-91516](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-uitoolkit-fps-drops-slash-increase-in-time-consumption-in-the-ui-toolkit-rendering-when-adding-style-dot-backgroundcolor-and-slash-or-style-dot-backgroundimage-to-the-visualelement))

- UI Toolkit: Automatically set the alpha channel of unset style color properties to 1 when picked through the color picker.
    ([UUM-76955](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/in-ui-builder-background-colours-start-with-an-alpha-of-0-which-can-be-easily-missed-by-users))

- UI Toolkit: Clicks in dead zones of the canvas selection header won't select the element underneath in UI Builder.
    ([UUM-107380](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-viewports-tool-gizmo-has-deadzones))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed a cosmetic issue where toolbar buttons shrank when the container shrank.
    (UUM-104876)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed aligned text and arrow icon for TreeView and MultiColumnTreeView in the samples window.
    ([UUM-104924](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/text-and-dropdown-icon-are-not-aligned-in-ui-toolkit-samples))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an exception thrown by the runtime dropdown field when choices list is empty.
    ([UUM-105552](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/argumentoutofrangeexception-is-thrown-when-an-empty-dropdownfield-is-clicked-at-runtime))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an exceptions when displaying PropertyFields bound to an array named "Array" in the inspector.
    ([UUM-110573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/binding-listview-failed-warning-is-thrown-when-a-gameobject-with-an-attached-script-containing-an-array-or-list-named-array-is-selected))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an intermittent crash on AppleTV that occurred during the `Painter2D.ClosePath()` call.
    ([UUM-105548](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tvos-exc-bad-access-error-is-thrown-when-painter2d-dot-closepath-is-called))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue so pressing the *Fit Viewport* button now centres a canvas in the UI Builder if the canvas size is 0,0.
    ([UUM-109243](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/fit-viewport-doesnt-work-if-uxml-document-output-is-resized-to-the-smallest-possible-size))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue so that multiple `PanelInputConfiguration` components now wait until entering Play mode to become disabled.
    (UUM-108599)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where binding to a GradientField or a CurveField could hang the editor.
    ([UUM-103737](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-freezes-when-changing-gradient-or-animationcurve-fields-with-the-runtime-binding-system))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where debug names would not appear when pressing the Alt key in debug inspector mode.
    ([UUM-18712](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uitoolkit-inspector-property-names-dont-show-up-correctly-when-inspector-is-in-debug-mode))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue where the IMGUI TreeView's context menu option to rename wouldn't work when the containing view was not focused.
    ([UUM-110067](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/gameobject-cannot-be-renamed-when-right-clicked-and-a-different-window-is-in-focus))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed an issue with PropertyFields bound to an array named "Array" throwing an exception when the add button was clicked.
    ([UUM-110572](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/nullreferenceexception-error-is-thrown-when-attempting-to-add-an-element-to-an-array-or-list-named-array-in-the-inspector))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed bound fields not showing an indication if they were animated or driven.
    (UUM-105089)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed cosmetic issue with the padding of sections in the UI Builder inspector.
    (UUM-86658)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed crash when stroking rounded joins with Painter2D.
    ([UUM-110455](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/crash-on-uitoolkit-uipainter2d-strokeroundedcap-when-drawing-an-arc-with-painter2d-on-specific-progress-value-using-linecap-dot-round))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed dirty builder state on switching to a document with a different canvas size.
    ([UUM-107410](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/switching-between-ui-documents-with-different-canvas-sizes-marks-the-uxml-file-as-dirty))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed dirty builder state on UXML and USS changes.
    (UUM-105717)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed elements sometimes still referenced in memory after being removed from their panel.
    ([UUM-109369](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/memory-address-leaks-when-using-visual-elements-in-a-specific-project))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed excessive empty space is present when observing Editor tabs.
    ([UUM-108287](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/excessive-empty-space-is-present-when-observing-editor-tabs))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed flickering of the data source and path view when refreshing the UIBuilder inspector.
    ([UUM-97556](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inspector-window-flickers-when-a-selector-is-created-using-a-style-class-list-section))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed highlight color of the uxml header when doing a drag and drop from the Library.
    ([UUM-76953](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/dragging-any-ui-element-under-the-uxml-file-in-the-ui-builder-hierarchy-doesnt-highlight-it))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed hover state update on world-space documents when the mouse isn't moving.
    (UUM-108595)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed inconsistent capitalisation of the word Binding in UI Builder.
    (UUM-110771)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed issue when dragging a reorderable list view item on the X axis making the item disappear from the list.
    (UUM-103527)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed lack of cohesion and spacing in UI Builder's variables section.
    (UUM-97031)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed ListView bug where a drag operation would select the item even with SelectionType.None.
    (UUM-107346)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed PanelInputConfiguration component should not be disabled when part of a Prefab being edited.
    ([UUM-108797](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/inputconfigurationpanel-component-in-a-prefabs-hierarchy-is-considered-as-a-duplicate))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed property field indentation.
    ([UUM-108741](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/header-attribute-is-misaligned-when-placed-before-an-inputactionproperty-field))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed QuickSearch warning from removing an element during its AttachToPanel event.
    ([UUM-107328](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/modifying-the-parent-of-a-visualelement-while-its-already-being-modified-is-not-allowed-error-is-thrown-when-entering-text-and-pressing-tab-in-the-search-window))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed runtime dropdown checkmark styling.
    ([UUM-109393](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/check-mark-in-enum-element-is-misaligned-when-hovered-on-in-play-mode))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed SceneView gizmo offset for nested UIDocuments in content container.
    (UUM-104724)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed specificity for ScrollView button styling when placed in a TabView control.
    ([UUM-105551](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/broken-scrollview-styling-when-placed-inside-a-tabview))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the binding of Objects to `INotifyValueChanged<Object>` fields.
    ([UUM-109467](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/a-custom-bindable-uitoolkit-element-cannot-be-bound-in-the-editor-when-it-is-inherited-from-type-object))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the position of the Editor Only label in the tree view mode of the UI Builder Library.
    ([UUM-102817](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/non-consistent-editor-only-label-position-in-the-library-section))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the TextElement's Selectable property not being saved in the UI Builder.
    (UUM-66323)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed the UI Builder New Selector field, changing the insertion point to the end when typing.
    ([UUM-109015](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-insertion-point-jumps-to-the-end-of-the-string-when-editing-a-new-selector-name))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed tooltips appearing away from the Editor window when the tooltip element is partially shown.
    ([UUM-109120](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/tooltip-appears-too-low-when-hovering-over-partially-visible-image))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Builder Hierarchy files are not marked dirty when Inspector fields in Attributes category are changed.
    ([UUM-105143](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-hierarchy-files-are-not-marked-dirty-when-inspector-fields-in-attributes-category-are-changed))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Builder UXML Preview text and icon overlapping.
    ([UUM-109323](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-uxml-preview-text-overlaps-with-its-icon))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed UI Debugger Pick Element feature not being able to select world-space document elements from the Game View.
    (UUM-108729)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed USS preview is not updated when a selector is moved to a new USS file.
    ([UUM-104904](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uss-code-is-not-updated-when-a-selector-is-deleted-or-is-moved-to-a-new-uss-file))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed USS preview not updated on deletion of selector.
    ([UUM-104904](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uss-code-is-not-updated-when-a-selector-is-deleted-or-is-moved-to-a-new-uss-file))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed USS selector is reparented when clicking on stylesheet after applying to element.
    ([UUM-104962](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/uss-selector-is-duplicated-when-it-is-added-to-an-element-the-action-is-undone-and-then-another-selector-is-clicked))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Added a new method overload to InspectorElement.FillDefaultInspector that can take an optional list of properties to be excluded, similar to `EditorGUI.DrawPropertiesExcluding`.

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Adjusted min size of UI Builder viewport to avoid clipping issues.
    ([UUM-100559](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hierarchy-and-library-parts-in-ui-builder-are-inaccessible-when-ui-builder-window-is-resized-and-these-elements-no-longer-fit-in-the-window))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Adjusted min size of UI Builder window and panes to avoid clipping issues.
    ([UUM-103062](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/buttons-in-the-ui-builder-viewport-section-get-cut-off-if-the-window-is-resized))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Clicking on Spacing/Border Widget values in the UI Builder now selects these values.
    ([UUM-105818](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-value-is-not-selected-when-left-clicking-on-spacing-slash-border-widget-values))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Ensure margin gizmo stays visible while dragging.
    ([UUM-105900](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builder-viewports-gizmos-for-margin-and-padding-disappear-when-dragging-to-modify-the-value-and-the-cursor-leaves-the-spacing-section))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: No exceptions when opening a file and renaming its first element.
    ([UUM-107900](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/notsupportedexception-error-is-thrown-when-renaming-components-in-ui-builder))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Prevented resizing and moving a VisualElement in the UI Builder that is scaled or rotated, this is not supported.
    ([UUM-107640](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/ui-builders-resize-guide-line-changes-position-and-doubles-when-dragging-the-edges-of-an-angled-visual-element))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Preview tab not expanding correctly in certain editor windows.
    ([UUM-107475](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/preview-tab-in-the-select-texture-2d-window-does-not-expand-when-the-window-is-minimized))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Selected Style Fields in the UI Builder now have their label highlighted.
    (UUM-107584)

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Text in the new selector field in UI Builder is no longer covered by the pseudo states button.
    ([UUM-109121](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/add-new-selector-input-text-is-partially-covered-by-the-add-pseudo-class-button))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: Using an Editor-only element in a UIDocument now triggers a warning in the Console and displays an error in the Inspector window of the UIDocument.
    ([UUM-105809](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/adding-color-element-in-ui-builder-breaks-color-picker))

- UI Toolkit: Fixed: \[UI Builder\] Fixed an issue where VisualElements could not be renamed when clicking on another VisualElement.
    ([UUM-109114](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/name-of-the-first-renamed-visual-element-does-not-change-in-the-ui-builder-hierarchy-when-its-being-renamed-in-the-inspector))

- UI Toolkit: Improved memory layout of UxmlSerializedData to reduce padding.
    ([UUM-108363](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/improve-uxmlserializeddata-generation-to-reduce-padding))

- Undo System: Fixed to block all calls to Undo during Asset Import.
    (UUM-100918)

- Undo System: Keep undo stack in sync during project load by pausing serialization.
    (UUM-97070)

- Universal RP: Added missing apv keywords to TerrainLitAdd.shader.
    ([UUM-100526](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/distant-shadowmask-does-not-cast-shadows-on-terrain-when-baking-with-adaptive-probe-volumes))

- Universal RP: Fixed an issue where a main light was disabled in the URP Asset.
    ([UUM-104391](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/lights-are-being-culled-and-appear-pixelated-when-the-main-light-property-is-disabled-and-forward-plus-or-deferred-plus-rendering-paths-are-used))

- Universal RP: Fixed and issue where SSAO was rendered inverted when the AfterOpaque setting is used without intermediate attachments allocated by the camera.
    ([UUM-73078](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/urp-in-the-player-ssao-is-flipped-when-after-opaque-is-enabled))

- Universal RP: Fixed black screen when using lens flare with bloom mip bias 0.
    ([UUM-109463](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-fails-to-render-and-becomes-dark-when-the-screen-space-lens-flare-components-intensity-is-set-to-1-and-the-bloom-mip-bias-is-set-to-0))

- Universal RP: Fixed incorrect input color in the user LUT sampling when HDR output enabled.
    (UUM-90785)

- Universal RP: Fixed Render Graph failing to handle Gizmos rendering with a DepthCopy pass when using SubmitRenderRequest in URP.
    ([UUM-91335](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/attempting-to-render-to-a-depth-only-surface-with-no-dummy-color-attachment-warning-is-thrown-when-calling-submitrenderrequest-in-urp-from-begincamerarendering-with-gizmos-enabled))

- URP: Fixed an issue to avoid persistent memory allocation \(`_CameraTargetAttachmentX` and `_CameraUpscaledTargetAttachmentX`\) in RenderGraph when possible \(single camera\), and use a RenderGraph texture instead.
    ([UUM-99384](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/cameratargetattachmentb-unnecessarily-allocates-memory-even-when-post-processing-is-disabled-and-camera-stacking-is-not-used))

- URP: Fixed an issue where nothing was rendered when using `Graphics.DrawProceduralIndirectNow` in the `OnRenderObject` method.
    ([UUM-96000](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/apple-m-chip-android-ios-nothing-is-rendered-in-the-game-view-slash-application-when-using-graphics-dot-drawproceduralindirectnow-with-urp-specified-shader))

- URP: Fixed IndexOutOfRangeException by allocating size with respect to visible light's length.
    ([UUM-102022](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/an-unclear-error-occurs-when-exceeding-the-light-limit-set-in-urp-config-package))

- URP: Fixed issue to now perform check that GBuffers are valid before using them in the DecalGBufferRenderPass.
    ([UUM-103836](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/game-view-turns-black-scene-view-turns-grey-console-error-nullreferenceexception-when-wireframe-is-turned-on-because-the-decalgbufferrenderpass-references-a-non-existent-gbuffer))

- URP: Fixed unclear warnings when user creates more lights than the light limit when using Deferred rendering path.
    ([UUM-102023](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/property-additionalshadowparams-exceeds-previous-array-size-41-vs-32-dot-dot-dot-warning-is-spammed-when-exceeding-the-light-limit-set-in-urp-config-package))

- Version Control: Added Beyond Compare 5 support to Yaml Merge.
    ([UUM-109861](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/beyond-compare-5-is-not-supported-by-yaml-merge))

- VFX Graph: Added a context menu option to insert a template at the mouse position.
    ([UUM-102573](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/newly-created-vfx-graph-template-appears-in-the-same-of-the-graph-view-space-even-when-the-space-is-not-empty))

- VFX Graph: Added clear in graph error feedback when a strip child system capacity does not match its parent system.
    ([UUM-72015](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-capacity-issue-when-using-gpuevent-and-strips))

- VFX Graph: Fixed a bug with in graph compilation error/warning badges not being displayed.

- VFX Graph: Fixed an exception in Template Window when selecting a category and clicking on the create button.
    (UUM-103882)

- VFX Graph: Fixed an exception that could happen when double clicking on a separator in the node search.
    ([UUM-105303](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/clicking-on-section-text-in-node-library-context-folder-throws-nullreferenceexception-errors))

- VFX Graph: Fixed an exception that occurred with the Inspector when a block exposed a skinned mesh renderer.
    ([UUM-102357](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/exposing-skinned-mesh-property-in-subgraph-throws-errors-when-interacting-with-the-parent-graph))

- VFX Graph: Fixed inconsistency with a wrap mode "hold".
    ([UUM-99451](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/visual-effect-control-track-continues-looping-when-wrap-mode-is-set-to-hold))

- VFX Graph: Fixed issue so now you can forbid dragging a subgraph block onto the graph directly, only allow on compatible contexts.
    ([UUM-104079](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/subgraph-block-cannot-be-dragged-and-dropped-to-the-workspace-and-it-throws-errors))

- VFX Graph: Fixed issue to now use display name instead of reference name for shaderKeyword integration with Shader Graph.
    ([UUM-103871](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-exposed-sg-keyword-property-display-their-ref-name-in-uppercase))

- VFX Graph: Fixed node search window was not compliant with light theme colors.
    ([UUM-105299](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/node-library-window-sections-text-in-context-folder-are-not-visible-when-editor-is-set-to-light-theme))

- VFX Graph: Fixed sticky note text change size when edited if the size is set to medium, lard or huge.
    ([UUM-92254](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-sticky-note-font-size-changes-when-editing-text))

- VFX Graph: Fixed: Avoid DPI warning message in the console.
    ([UUM-108361](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/trying-to-access-the-dpi-setting-of-a-visual-element-that-is-not-on-a-panel-warnings-are-thrown-when-changing-the-shape-of-a-vfx-changing-it-back-and-saving-the-asset))

- VFX Graph: Fixed: Non exposed properties aren't using default value.
    ([UUM-103873](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-unexposed-sg-property-default-value-are-not-fetch-by-vfx-graph))

- VFX Graph: Fixed: Refresh Gizmo on Model Change to handle shape switches.
    ([UUM-104548](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vfx-graph-set-position-shape-gizmo-isnt-refreshed-after-shaper-switch))

- VFX Graph: Fixed: Six-way lighting : fix APV indirect lighting when the VFX system is in world space.
    ([UUM-108240](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/hdrp-6-way-vfx-shader-is-lit-incorrectly-when-world-coordinates-are-used))

- VFX Graph: Fixed: When the word template is used as a Unity feature then capitalize the word.
    ([UUM-102556](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/the-word-template-is-not-capitalised-consistently-throughout-the-insert-a-template-into-current-vfx-asset-window))

- Video: Fixed an issue where the VideoPlayer component failed to play MP4 files from StreamingAssets on some Android devices using Vulkan. The required NV12 decode shaders are now correctly included, restoring video playback on affected hardware.
    ([UUM-105019](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/vulkan-on-certain-android-devices-unitys-videoplayer-component-fails-to-play-mp4-files-located-under-the-streamingassets-folder))

- Video: Fixed sporadic crash of video player on iOS when app is brought from background to foreground.
    (UUM-93765)

- Video: Fixed: \[Windows\] Editor no longer crashes when listing webcams whose name is missing or empty. Such cameras are now skipped safely \(with a warning in the Editor\).
    ([UUM-105563](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/editor-crashes-with-platformwebcamtexture-getdevicenames-when-a-virtual-camera-is-present-and-friendlyname-property-is-deleted-from-registry))

- Video: \[Android\] Fixed videoPlayer leaks memory when repeating Play and Stop on a Video.
    ([UUM-77668](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/android-videoplayer-leaks-memory-when-repeating-play-and-stop-on-a-video))

- VisionOS: Fixed: A few audio app lifecycle issues were fixed on visionOS. Previously, when moving the Unity app through the various lifecycle states \(i.e. foreground, background\), audio could stop playing in error.
    (UUM-60646)

- Web: Fixed a bug caused by the use of a deprecated windows utility.
    (UUM-104979)

- Web: Fixed Object.InstantiateAsync in multithreaded Web builds.
    (UUM-103893)

- WebGL: Fixed a WebGL error with URP and MSAA, when a depth only render pass is involved.
    ([UUM-90459](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/scene-is-not-rendered-and-renderpass-errors-when-urp-msaa-is-enabled-in-the-webgl-player))

- Windows: Fixed SystemInfo.deviceType to correctly return the type of device the Windows Standalone player is running on.
    (UUM-110392)

- Windows: Updating PIX runtime libraries and fixing missing PIX markers for Unity profiling and graphics events.
    (UUM-110778)

- XR: Fixed an issue where deployed URP Quest Applications threw Vulkan Errors on App Exit.
    (UUM-109083)

- XR: Fixed an issue where the `XrDisplaySubsystem` tried to destroy textures that were still in use by other processes. This fix uses `FinishRendering()` to block the simulation thread until those resources are no longer in use before trying to destroy them.
    (UUM-109086)

- XR: Fixed XR stats from gfx thread, like refreshRate being dropped issue.
    ([UUM-104824](https://issuetracker.unity3d.com/issues/xrdevice-dot-refreshrate-returns-0-dot-0-hz-when-running-standalone-build-in-vr-mode))

- XR: Updated XR Hands \(com.unity.xr.hands\) to version 1.6.0-pre.3.

- XR: Updated XR Hands \(com.unity.xr.hands\) to version 1.6.0.




#### Preview of Final 6000.3.0a2 Package changes